# 3.2 eCPRI Requirements and EFS (Loner only)

## 3.2.0-1 eCPRI Requirements and EFS (Loner only) Document Owner Iana Zhezheleva (ID: 11424469)

## 3.2.1 L1-HI Requirements for eCPRI

### 3.2.1.1 eCPRI U-plane protocols for Loner

#### 3.2.1.1.0-102 eCPRI U-plane protocols for Loner Loner L1 SW shall ignore logicalResourceIds and numOfLogicalResourceIds from C-Plane within messages DLCell_SetupReq (5G_L1_IF_20_replaced( 11512165 )) and ULCell_SetupReq (5G_L1_IF_158_replaced( 11513484 )). (ID: 11425219)

## 3.2.2 L1-HI EFS for eCPRI U-plane protocols for Loner

### 3.2.2.1 Introduction

**3.2.2.1.0-1**  (ID: `11425240`)

Introduction
The Entity-level Functional Specification (EFS) of Loner's eCPRI User Plane Protocols for releases before and including 5G21A is stored on Sharepoint under the following link:

<https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/ATFL1Spec/EgG8AIIXjkVJt4aH1oq6rl8BHah23xKQtjSLy9738z-S4w?e=PuEAc8>

This chapter is intended to provide the funtional deltas for system releases starting from 5G21B.

---

### 3.2.2.2 General

**3.2.2.2.0-2**  (ID: `11425259`)

General
eFramer Stream Configuration

Refer to the eFramer Design Specification for more information on eFramer configuration:

<https://nokia.sharepoint.com/sites/soc_ethernet_subsystems/_layouts/15/DocIdRedir.aspx?ID=4BIMPOAI3P2L-407269314-792>

Ingress buffer addresses are configured based on 5G\_L1\_5925\_replaced([11425290](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_e-vILPvvEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

[5GC002093-A] When subcell pooling is used in FR1, eFramer shall be configured to use memory buffer select mode ‘symbol# in frame’. This mode shall be used in FR1 configurations. [end 5GC002093-A]

[CB006941-5G-A] In case of PRACH streams, mode ‘+1 memory buffer’ shall be used in FR1 configurations. [end CB006941-5G-A]

[CB006994-B] Support of out-of-order eCPRI U-Plane message reception requires special configuration of eFramer memory buffer select mode. Note that utilization of buffer selection modes based on previous symbol information may work incorrectly when messages from different symbols are interleaved by the network. The underlying configuration is summarized in the table below.

|  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | eCPRI U-Plane stream | Memory buffer select mode | Notes |
| FR1 | PUxCH | symbol# in frame | Message reception window is wider than symbol duration. More than one message per symbol expected. |
| PRACH short formats | +1 when timestamp value changes | Up to one message per symbol expected. See Note 1 below. |  |
| PRACH Format 0 | +1 when timestamp value changes | Message reception window is smaller than symbol duration. Up to two messages per symbol expected. See Note 2 below. |  |
| FR2 | PUxCH | symbol# in frame | Message reception window is wider than symbol duration. More than one message per symbol expected. |
| PRACH short formats | +1 when timestamp value changes | Up to one message per symbol expected. See Note 1 below. |  |

Note 1: Short PRACH formats require configuration of ‘+1 when timestamp value changes’ mode due to cooperation with MADE ES2. However, this mode still can be used under assumption of out-of-order message reception, as there is only up to one message per symbol expected due to small bandwidth of PRACH preamble.

Note 2: Long PRACH format can be supported with ‘+1 when timestamp value changes’ mode, as it is assumed that reception windows for different PRACH symbols does not overlap.

[end CB006994-B]

##### 

The table shows required eFramer stream number dimensioning per ABIL board for selected baseband blocks (worst case included):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | Type | Dir flag | Ingress / Egress | Content | Number of eFramer streams |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | FR1 |  |  | FR2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | 5GC002221 | 5GC002411 | 5GC002509 | 5GC001968 | 5GC002211 |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | U-plane | 1 (DL) | Egress | Regular DL channels | 16 | 24 | 16 | 16 | 16 |  |
|  | U-plane | 1 (DL) | Egress | SS/PBCH block \* | 0 | 0 | 0 | 16 | 16 |  |
|  | U-plane | 0 (UL) | Ingress | Regular UL channels | 8 | 12 | 8 | 4 | 8 |  |
|  | U-plane | 0 (UL) | Ingress | PRACH | 4 | 6 | 8 | 4 | 8 |  |
|  | Fast C-Plane | 1 (DL) | Egress | FCP Regular DL channels | 16 | 24 | 16 | 16 | 16 |  |
|  | Fast C-Plane | 1 (DL) | Egress | FCP SS/PBCH block \* | 0 | 0 | 0 | 16 | 16 |  |
|  | Fast C-Plane | 0 (UL) | Egress | FCP Regular UL channels | 8 | 12 | 8 | 4 | 8 |  |
|  | Fast C-Plane | 0 (UL) | Egress | FCP PRACH | 4 | 6 | 8 | 4 | 8 |  |
|  |  |  |  | Total EGRESS | 44 | 66 | 48 | 72 | 80 |  |
|  |  |  |  | Total INGRESS | 12 | 18 | 16 | 8 | 16 |  |
| \* SSB in FR2 requires dedicated streams for Both FCP and UP due to different numerology. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

[PR577194] L1-SW shall configure eFramer to use virtual streams in order to allow for processing of more than 16 ingress streams, required to serve eCPRI U-Plane traffic in UL direction. Utilization of virtual streams puts restrictions on eAxC ID values configured by higher layers. In order to allow for configuration of virtual streams, L1-SW shall take the following assumptions regarding eAxC ID values:

* values of DU\_Port\_ID are used to differentiate different cells configured on the same ABIL - each cell is assigned with consecutive value of DU\_Port\_ID starting from 0, then the maximum value of DU\_Port\_ID is 3 in case of C2 subcell type and 1 in case of C4,
* values of BandSector\_ID and CC\_ID subfields are constant for all configured eAxC ID on the same ABIL,
* values of RU\_Port\_ID are used to differentiate eAxC ID within a single cell.

[end PR577194]

---

### 3.2.2.3 U-Plane processing

#### 3.2.2.3.0-4 U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing 11425315: U-Plane processing MADE ES2 PRACH workaround Due to an architectural bug in MADE ES2 implementation, timing header parameters in eCPRI UP messages generated by the chip and carrying PRACH data do not follow the standard scheme specified by ORAN and adapted in Nokia implementation. Because the bug prevents any co-operation between ABIL and MADE ES2-based radios, there is a need to introduce workaround in ABIL to allow adaptation to the new addressing scheme. MADE ES2 fills the timing header of the eCPRI UP packet in the following way: - slotID = PRACH occasion number in a subframe, - symbolID = symbol within the occasion, - filterIndex = unknown. ABIL is using following numbering: - slotID set according to ORAN based on highest used numerology. - symbolID according to startingSymbol in 3GPP spec for the first symbol in PRACH occasion (see 3GPP TS 38.211, Tables 6.3.3.2-2 and 6.3.3.2-3), then increasing. For second and further occasions – also according to startingSymbol based on the formula: eCPRI_symbolID = startingSymbol + occasion duration + symbol_in_occasion - filterIndex = 3. The workaround shall be implemented inside ECPRI_IF module. The solution shall introduce a new logic, called MADE ES2 Adaptation, responsible for overwriting the timing information in the eFramer sideband bus before its propagated to other submodules of ECPRI_IF. The MADE adaption shall be controlled with at least subcell resolution and bypassed by default (i.e. the adaptation shall be disabled). The MADE adaptation shall never be activated for FR2. The MADE adaptation shall not be activated for long PRACH formats (i.e. format 0). The table presents the discrepancy between ABIL and MADE ES2 in term of handling of slotID and symbolID parameters in the eCPRI UP packets for PRACH: [docx_desc] Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot Symbol in a slot PRACH format C2 PRACH format C2 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 ABIL slotID actual actual actual actual actual actual actual actual ABIL symbolID 2 3 4 5 8 9 10 11 MADE ES2 slotID 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 MADE ES2 symbolID 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 PRACH format A2 PRACH format A2 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 ABIL slotID actual actual actual actual actual actual actual actual actual actual actual actual ABIL symbolID 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 MADE ES2 slotID 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 MADE ES2 symbolID 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 PRACH format C0 PRACH format C0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 ABIL slotID act act act act act act act ABIL symbolID 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 MADE ES2 slotID 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 MADE ES2 symbolID 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 [/docx_desc][docx_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng_files/attachments/pukkola_5G_L1_Entity_Level_file3529_0.docx[/docx_path] The picture below shows an impact of MADE ES2 workaround to ECPRI_IF module architecture (PRACH only). Yellow blocks denotes L1-SW components, whereas the blue ones correspond to FPGA IPs. [image-0][image_desc]The image is a diagram illustrating a system architecture, likely related to telecommunications or signal processing. The diagram uses boxes and arrows to represent components and their interactions. Here's a breakdown of the elements: Top Section: * L1-SW (PRACH): A yellow box indicating a software component related to PRACH (Physical Random Access Channel). An upward purple arrow originates from "PRACH decoder" and points to this box. * RX_TIME: A light blue box. * Dynamic Config: A light blue box with a curved line connecting it to "RX_TIME", suggesting a relationship or dependency. * 3 L1-SW (MADE adaptation): A yellow box with a purple circle containing the number "3", indicating another software component, this one for MADE adaptation. Middle Section: * ECPRI_IF: A large light blue box representing an interface. * Address association table: An orange box within "ECPRI_IF". An arrow points from "2 MADE ES2 Adaptation" to this box. * eCPRI statistics (late/early): An orange box within "ECPRI_IF". An arrow points from "2 MADE ES2 Adaptation" to this box. Bottom Section: * PRACH decoder: A light blue box on the left. * SRAM Buffers: A light blue box above and to the right of "ECPRI_IF". Arrows point from "ECPRI_IF" to this box. * 2 MADE ES2 Adaptation: A light blue box within "ECPRI_IF", containing a purple circle with the number "2". Arrows point from "SRAM Buffers" to this box, and from this box to "Address association table" and "eCPRI statistics (late/early)". A blue arrow labeled "sideband" points from this box to "1 eFramer". * 1 eFramer: A light blue box on the right, containing a purple circle with the number "1". Overall Flow (Inferred): The diagram suggests that a "PRACH decoder" feeds into "L1-SW (PRACH)". "RX_TIME" and "Dynamic Config" are also present. The "ECPRI_IF" component houses "MADE ES2 Adaptation", which interacts with "SRAM Buffers" and provides data to "Address association table" and "eCPRI statistics". The "MADE ES2 Adaptation" also communicates via a "sideband" to "1 eFramer". "L1-SW (MADE adaptation)" is another software component.[/image_desc][image_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng_files/images/HTML_pukkola_5G_L1_Entity_Level_file_3529.002.png[/image_path][/image-0] The impacts to the respective sub-components can be summarized as follows: 1. eFramer configuration PRACH UP streams should be configured with '+1 Memory buffer' mode. 2. MADE ES2 Adaptation block Recalculate slotID and symbolID for further processing according to the formulas: correct_symbolID = MADE_symbolID + (MADE_slotID mod REG_occ_in_slot) * REG_duration + REG_start_symbol correct_slotID = (RX_TIME_slotID + (correct_symbolID &lt; RX_TIME_symbolID?1:0)) mod 2 where RX_TIME_slotID and RX_TIME_symbolID are the time-base provided by RX_TIME component of LEKA RX. Calculation of correct_slotID is based on RX_TIME reference, since information about PRACH configuration index are not provided to L1 at the cell setup. Due to the fact, it’s not possible to determine correct_slotID only based on MADE_slotID and REG_occ_in_slot. Note that configurations with mixed preamble formats in the same subcell are not supported. However, different subcells may be configured with different preamble format, thus REG_occ_in_slot, REG_duration and REG_start_symbol shall be provided per subcell. The following parameters are provided by L1-SW: - REG_duration: set to a number of symbols that a single PRACH occasion spans, counting in the regular (PUSCH) grid, including cyclic prefix and guard period. It is derived based on prachFormat from the UlCell_SetupReq. Values allowed by 3GPP are: [2,4,6,12]. - REG_start_symbol: starting symbols of the first occasion in a slot. Equal to prachStartSymbol from the UlCell_SetupReq. Values allowed by 3GPP are: [0,2,6,7,8,9]. - REG_occ_in_slot: a number of PRACH occasions in a single PRACH slot. It is required to support configurations with two PRACH slots in a subframe. Derived based on prachFormat and prachStartSymbol from the UlCell_SetupReq. Values depending on preamble format, e.g. in case of preamble format C0 equals 7.* Additionally, the value of filterIndex shall not be validated. There is no impact to subsequent blocks (i.e. address association and statistics). 3. *L1-SW *** The L1-SW shall be responsible for configuration of the eFramer (setting the '+1 Memory buffer' mode for PRACH UP streams), as well as configuration of the adaptation block in ECPRI_IF, i.e. enabling the module based on ORANprachNumerology flag and prachFormat from UlCell_SetupReq (see 5G_L1_IF_152_replaced( 11513449 )) and setting the REG_duration, REG_occ_in_slot and REG_start_symbol. Note that the MADE adaptation shall be enabled only for subcells with short PRACH format configured. (ID: 11425315)

### 3.2.2.4 Fast C-Plane

**3.2.2.4.0-1**  (ID: `11425329`)

Fast C-Plane
There are some circumstances under which the PRACH FCP is muted, i.e. it is not transmitted to the RU, so the UlData\_PrachReceiveReq may be ignored by L1-SW at the time of FCP message generation. In all other cases not listed below the PRACH FCP shall be generated. The PRACH FCP is muted when:

* Operating in FD BF mode, i.e. when ulEcpriFdBeamforming = True, as stated in the requirement 5G\_L1\_5G21A\_1535.
* The subcell is configured to operate with MADE ES2 RU, i.e. in case when the flag ORANprachNumerology from UlCell\_SetupReq (see 5G\_L1\_IF\_152\_replaced([11513449](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRwhwfvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) is activated for a given subcell.

---

### 3.2.2.5 eCPRI Capture

**3.2.2.5.0-7**  (ID: `11425394`)

eCPRI Capture
eCPRI capture messages:

- L1Log\_AntennaSnapshotReq

- L1Log\_AntennaSnapshotResp

- L1Log\_AntennaSnapshotConfigurationReq

- L1Log\_AntennaSnapshotConfigurationResp

For the contents of messages please check 5G\_L1\_IF\_496\_replaced([11516322](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSC1m_vxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_L1\_IF\_497\_replaced([11516326](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSC1nPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_L1\_IF\_498\_replaced([11516331](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSC1nfvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and 5G\_L1\_IF\_499\_replaced([11516336](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSC1nvvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---
