# 1.4 Guideline for Algorithm Descriptions

## 1.4.1 Design Principles

**1.4.1.0-1**  (ID: `11094021`)

Design Principles
**Algorithm shall be designed in a way that it**

1. Does comply to design criteria and fulfil the user scenarios.

2. Does not need to be modified when we add another feature for this area, i.e., is designed in a way that we do not use measurements/algorithms and algorithms that need to be adjusted with each feature but are using more generic inputs that are not sensitive when future features are introduced or are then automatically adjusting

* Example: Network slicing algorithm has been done in a way that we measure the outcome of the slicing algorithm and have a control loop that is changing scheduling weights to adjust the slicing share such that we obtain the desired slicing quotas. Therefore, if we do changes of the detailed scheduling algorithm there is no need to modify the slicing algorithm as this will adjust automatically.

3. Is robust with respect to corner cases arising from certain traffic, propagation, deployment, baseband/RF configurations, i.e., needs to correctly work in all situations that can occur in reality.

* Examples:
* High load/medium load/low load/load differences between cells/traffic mixes …
* Cell edge/cell centre/near cell UE position
* Different propagation models (line of sight, …), different UE speeds
* With/without interference
* Different BB configurations

4. Aims for maximum radio performance/customer experience but needs to be still computationally feasible/computationally efficient:

* Especially for areas where we have high processing need like packet scheduler, L1 processing we should aim for computational efficiency and allow also minor deviations from the optimum if there is a significant benefit in processing needs
* Example: If scheduler searches for UE candidates to be scheduled over PDCCH we could stop looking for new candidate after a certain number of attempts or allow it only for low aggregation levels
* Some processing optimizations can be left to the EFS/CP3 level, i.e., EFS/CP3 specifications shall do optimization for processing efforts but without impact on the final outcome of the algorithm/radio interface behaviour; of course there are limitations for EFS/CP3 level optimizations.
* Example: No need to calculate average UE data rate in TTIs/radio slots for scheduling decisions, when a UE does not have data in its buffer and cannot be scheduled.
* Algorithm should avoid loops where the algorithm needs to go back to earlier steps/decisions in certain situations and do changes for these earlier steps/decisions.
* Example:  If scheduler is allocating in a certain step a physical resource block (PRB) to a UE it shall be avoided that in a later scheduling step such a decision needs to be revisited.

---

## 1.4.2 General Guidelines

**1.4.2.0-1**  (ID: `11094028`)

General Guidelines
An algorithm is structured and described such that it

1) Can be easily understood, i.e., there is not just a mathematical description/formula but also some textual description or even illustrations/examples

2) Has a reasoning and motivation for the algorithm target and all steps of the algorithm

3) Is structured in a way that it can be easily maintained and enhanced in future, i.e., have dedicated steps for the algorithm that are then put to separate requirements

4) Has a clear description of input, internal and output parameters, parameter names and units (dBm, Watt, #PRBs, …)

NOTE:

* Instead of mentioning an input parameter is received from some system component, mention from which algorithm the input is received.
* Instead of mentioning an output parameter is delivered to some system component, may mention which algorithm or function needs it.

5) Has a clear definition how to handle exceptions (division by zero, rounding rules for integer variables, tie breaks, …)

Algorithm descriptions shall follow the template given in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_28191\_replaced([11094031](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kmYMR_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

Note: It is not the intention to describe the algorithm in a way that it can be most efficiently processed as  
- This is the task of CP3/EFS level specification to tailor the algorithms such these can be most easily be processed.  
- This can be also added as a note/informal requirement to the SFS level.

For further guidance see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_28353\_replaced([11094040](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kmYMSvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

## 1.4.3 Template for Algorithm Descriptions

### 1.4.3.0-1 Template for Algorithm Descriptions (ID: 11094035)

**1.4.3.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11094038`)

Template for Algorithm Descriptions
Purpose

Overview and purpose of the algorithm with reasoning and motivation.

Highlight the decisions made as part of the algorithm.

Inputs

Usually NIDD parameters, R&D parameters or outputs from other SFS requirements or algorithms.

Mention the algorithm or function which produces an input parameter (without mentioning the system component from which it is received).

Use parameter names unique in all requirements and algorithms.

Follow the parameter naming guidelines.

Algorithm

With well-defined structure, usually having numbered steps which can be defined in separate requirements.

Use active voice with the precise actor performing the steps (e.g. "gNB-DU shall ... ").

Rationale

Optionally provide more details relevant in understanding specific algorithm step(s).

Outputs

Use parameter names unique in all requirements and algorithms.

Follow the parameter naming guidelines.

Optionally mention which algorithm or function needs the output parameter (without mentioning the system component which needs it) and provide a reference.

---

## 1.4.4 Training and Further Reading

**1.4.4.0-1**  (ID: `11094044`)

Training and Further Reading
References:

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| Training on 'Algorithm Design Recommendation and Algorithm Specification Guideline' | MN05459-K-0001 (csod.com) |
| Training material on 'Algorithm Design Recommendation and Algorithm Specification Guideline' (slides) |  |
| CM Parameter Guideline for UP and CP |  |
| Parameter names in system level specification | Folder: <https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/sites/5GSystemEngineering/User_Plane_Solution_Domain/Work%20Documents/WoW%20User%20Plane?csf=1&web=1&e=mpitW0>   Document: <https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:p:/r/sites/5GSystemEngineering/User_Plane_Solution_Domain/Work> Documents/WoW User Plane/Parameter names in system level specification\_v10.pptx?d=w486f5e7f1aa046d18659e0f6e79c19e6&csf=1&web=1&e=QhIm9N |
| 5G UP SFS / first steps to adapt to - MN RAN Architecture Reference Model - Golden Standard |  |

---

## 1.4.5 Examples

### 1.4.5.0-1 Examples tbd for L1, L2RT, L2NRT (ID: 11094052)
