# 4.16 UL grant request procedure

## 4.16.0-3 UL grant request procedure UL grant request for RLC status PDU (ID: 11225322)

**4.16.0-3.0-3**  (ID: `13351015`)

UL grant request procedure
In case when number of RLC PDU waiting for acknowledgement >= unackedRlcPduThreshold AND statusWaitTimer is not running for the Bearer,

 5G-L2-HI shall indicate that UL grant is needed for RLC STATUS PDU while sending DL RLC PDU to primary 5G-L2-LO instance.

 Start statusWaitTimer for the Bearer.

If frequencyRange == FR2,

unackedRlcPduThreshold = rdUnackedRlcPduThresholdFr2.

The timer period for statusWaitTimer is defined by rdstatusWaitTimerFr2

else If bearer is configured with 12 bits RLC SN length,

unackedRlcPduThreshold = rdUnackedRlcPduThreshold12BitsSNLen.

The timer period for statusWaitTimer is defined by rdstatusWaitTimer12BitsSNLen

else

unackedRlcPduThreshold = rdUnackedRlcPduThreshold.

The timer period for statusWaitTimer is defined by rdstatusWaitTimer

Following parameters are received in Bearer Setup Request:

* frequencyRange
* RLC SN length

rdUnackedRlcPduThreshold (Refer 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6828\_replaced([11225408](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNBy_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and rdStatusWaitTimer(Refer 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6829\_replaced([11225400](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNByvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) are R&D parameter

[Before CNI-130359-A]

rdUnackedRlcPduThresholdFr2 (Refer 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6830\_replaced([11225435](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNBz_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and rdStatusWaitTimerFr2(Refer 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6831\_replaced([11225413](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNBzPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) are R&D parameter

[End CNI-130359-A]

rdUnackedRlcPduThreshold12BitsSNLen (Refer 5G\_UP\_ALG\_16628\_replaced([11225461](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNo0fvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and rdstatusWaitTimer12BitsSNLen (Refer 5G\_UP\_ALG\_16630\_replaced([11225471](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNo2fvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) are R&D parameters.

*Note: Incase when flow control does not allow sending of RLC PDU to 5G-L2-LO,*

RLC PDU with UL grant allocation request for RLC status PDU will be delayed.

The amount of delay depends on for how long flow control is again allowed to send RLC PDU towards 5G-L2-LO.

---

## 4.16.0-4 UL grant request procedure UL grant request for ping delay reduction (ID: 11225342)

**4.16.0-4.0-1**  (ID: `11225348`)

UL grant request procedure
Backoff timer start

---

**4.16.0-4.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11225360`)

UL grant request procedure
Incase when RLC buffer becomes empty (refer Note 1) after sending the RLC PDU, for the corresponding RLC AM mode DRB (refer Note 6):

 Upon receiving the Data Delivery Status indication from 5G-L2-LO, 5G-L2-HI shall evaluate the below conditions.

 The 5G-L2-HI RLC buffer is empty (refer Note 1), AND

 The L2-LO buffer is reported as empty (refer Note 2), AND

* “Highest L2-HI Sequence submitted to MAC” matches with the "5G-L2-HI SN" (refer 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6832\_replaced([11222166](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kx5fzvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) of the last RLC PDU that is sent from RLC entity of 5G-L2-HI.

[CB009409-A]

In case when the “TCP Boost proactive uplink grant” is enabled for the bearer (refer Note 7)

 TCP Boost Proactive Uplink Grants are deactivated as defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17102\_replaced([11221931](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kx4RrvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

[End CB009409-A]

Upon evaluation, if all the above conditions are satisfied, start the ulGrantReqBackOffTimer with a duration of (rdUlGrantReqBackOffPeriod (refer Note 4)– elapsedTimeSinceLastSentPdu (refer note5)].

If the time elapsed since sending the last PDU from L2-LO >= rdUlGrantReqBackOffPeriod, Consider the timer to be expired.

Note:

1. 5G-L2-HI RLC Buffer is considered empty incase when RLC SDU buffer, transmission buffer and retransmission buffers are empty.

2. L2-LO Buffer status is recieved in the Data Delivery Status indication from 5G-L2-LO.

3. ulGrantReqBackOffTimer expiry actions are defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6198\_replaced([11225381](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNBx_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

4. rdUlGrantReqBackOffPeriod is defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6804\_replaced([11225453](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNo0PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

5. elapsedTimeSinceLastSentPdu is the amount of time since the last RLC PDU has been sent out from 5G-L2-LO. This information is recieved in the Data Delivery Status indication from 5G-L2-LO. This parameter is valid only if the 5G-L2-LO buffer is empty, in all other cases elapsedTimeSinceLastSentPdu is set to an invalid value.

6. ulGrantReqBackOffTimer for triggering UL grant is applicable only for RLC AM mode DRBs.

[CB009409-A]

7. TCP Boost proactive uplink grant (TCP Boost PUG) is enabled/disabled (indicated to 5G-L2-HI RLC) per bearer by CP-RT based on the actTcpBoostPug, bearer type (non-GBR).

[End CB009409-A]

---

**4.16.0-4.0-2**  (ID: `11225368`)

UL grant request procedure
Backoff timer stop

---

**4.16.0-4.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11225374`)

UL grant request procedure
In case when, the transmission or retransmission buffer becomes non-empty

Stop the ulGrantReqBackOffTimer if running.

Note:

1. Buffer is considered empty incase when both transmission and retransmission buffers are empty.

---

**4.16.0-4.0-3**  (ID: `11225381`)

UL grant request procedure
Backoff timer expiry

---

**4.16.0-4.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11225388`)

UL grant request procedure
Upon expiry of the timer ‘ulGrantReqBackOffTimer’,

* Incase L2-LO Buffer is empty, and the 5G-L2-HI-RLC buffer is empty, 5G-L2-HI shall send UL grant allocation request to primary 5G-L2-LO.

Note:

1. In this case, since there is no data to be sent, 5G-L2-HI shall send indication to 5G-L2-LO with parameters set as follows:

a. numOfPdus is set to 1

b. LoDataUeID is set to the Id of the current Bearer.

c. logicalChannelIdentity is set to the corresponding valid value of the current Bearer.

d. sizeOfRlcData” shall be set to 0

e. Rest of the IE’s in the request shall be set to the minimum value in the range and are ignored at L2-LO.

2. ulGrantReqBackOffTimer handling is defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6192\_replaced([11225348](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyNBwPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

3. 5G-L2-HI Rlc Buffer is considered empty incase when both transmission and retransmission buffers are empty.

4. L2-LO Buffer status is received in Data Delivery Status indication from 5G-L2-LO.

Rationale:

To improve ping RTT, after sending the DL ping packet, gNB needs to provide a UL grant to the UE to send the UL ping response.

L2-HI(DU) currently does not know if RLC SDU is ping or not. Hence it use RLC buffer empty for short time as a mechanism to detect ping.

Once RLC buffer is empty for ulGrantReqBackOffTimer ms, it triggers L2-PS to send a UL grant.

Since the RLC buffer is split between L2-HI(DU) and L2-LO, the RLC buffer empty should also check if L2-LO buffer is empty. This also avoid the case when DL data is buffered in L2-LO and still gNB scheduled as UL grant.

---

## 4.16.1 R&amp;D Parameter

### 4.16.1.0-3 R&amp;D Parameter rdStatusWaitTimerFr2 (ID: 11225413)

**4.16.1.0-3.0-3**  (ID: `13355699`)

R&D Parameter
[Before CNI-130359-A]

*rdStatusWaitTimerFr2*

Description: The parameter defines the timer period for status wait timer for the bearer for frequency range obtained from Bearer Setup Request as FR2 and is used to set the appropriate flag during generation of AMD RLC PDUs to 5G-L2-Lo.

Value range: 5...200

Default value: 5

Unit: ms

Online modifiable: No

Step Size: 5

Specified in: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6188\_replaced([11225322](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyMavPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

[End CNI-130359-A]

---

### 4.16.1.0-4 R&amp;D Parameter rdUnackedRlcPduThresholdFr2 (ID: 11225435)

**4.16.1.0-4.0-3**  (ID: `13355720`)

R&D Parameter
[Before CNI-130359-A]

*rdUnackedRlcPduThresholdFr2*

Description: The parameter indicates treshold value for number of RLC PDU waiting for acknowledgement and is defined for frequency range obtained from Bearer Setup Request as FR2. Used to set the appropriate flag during generation of AMD RLC PDUs to 5G-L2-Lo.

Value range: 300...10000

Default value: 300

Unit: ms

Online modifiable: No

Step Size: 100

Specified in: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6188\_replaced([11225322](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyMavPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

[End CNI-130359-A]

---

### 4.16.1.0-6 R&amp;D Parameter rdUnackedRlcPduThreshold12BitsSNLen (ID: 11225461)

**4.16.1.0-6.0-1**  (ID: `11225464`)

R&D Parameter
rdUnackedRlcPduThreshold12BitsSNLen

Description: The parameter indicates threshold value for number of RLC PDUs waiting for acknowledgement for the bearer with 12bit RLC SN length obtained from Bearer Setup Request. It is used to set the appropriate flag during generation of AMD RLC PDUs to 5G-L2-LO.

Value range: 50...1000

Default value: 500

Unit: Integer number

Online modifiable: No

Step Size: 50

Specified in: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6188\_replaced([11225322](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyMavPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

---

### 4.16.1.0-7 R&amp;D Parameter rdstatusWaitTimer12BitsSNLen (ID: 11225471)

**4.16.1.0-7.0-1**  (ID: `11225479`)

R&D Parameter
rdstatusWaitTimer12BitsSNLen

Description: The parameter defines the timer period for status wait timer for the bearer with 12bit RLC SN length obtained from Bearer Setup Request. It is used to set the appropriate flag during generation of AMD RLC PDUs to 5G-L2-LO.

Value range: 5...200

[Before PR714259]

Default value: 5

[PR714259]

Default value: 10

[End PR714259]

Unit: ms

Online modifiable: No

Step Size: 5

Specified in: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6188\_replaced([11225322](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyMavPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

---
