# 4.20 RLC SDU Discard Algorithm

## 4.20.0-2 RLC SDU Discard Algorithm RLC SDU discard due to RLC Buffer congestion mechanism (ID: 11225639)

**4.20.0-2.0-5**  (ID: `13401143`)

RLC SDU Discard Algorithm
5G-L2-HI shall detect RLC Buffer(SDU and PDU) congestion on reception of new RLC SDU when one of the below condition is met

The received RLC SDU is for DC-GBR DRB **AND RLC Buffer (SDU and PDU) usage exceeds the RLC buffer usage threshold.**

**Note: NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech is by default enabled if DC-GBR feature is activated.**

**OR**

The received RLC SDU is for GBR DRB**AND RLC Buffer(SDU and PDU) usage exceeds the RLC buffer usage threshold** AND "GBR" bit is set in NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech\*\*\*\*

**OR**

The received RLC SDU is for non-GBR DRB **AND RLC Buffer(SDU and PDU) usage exceeds the RLC buffer usage threshold** AND "NonGBR" or "rrcInactive" bit is set in NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech\*\*\*\*

**NOTE:**

* MC-GBR DRB (5QI 65, 66, 67) are handled similar to other GBR DRB with no specific extension for the above trigger conditions for discard.

[CB014699-D] gNB-CU-UP shall exclude bearers that are marked for critical traffic (i.e, NRBTS.NRDRB.criticalDrbSchedEnabled set to True) from consideration for discard unless all active bearers are marked for critical traffic or only Critical traffic bearers have data (non-Critical bearers do not have data at the time of congestion or buffer overflow). [End CB014699-D]

The following action shall be taken when RLC Buffer congestion is detected

**1**. ***\*IF incoming RLC SDU is for DC-GBR DRB, select the non-GBR bearer having the highest number of unsent RLC SDU(s).  If only GBR bearers are present, select the GBR bearer having highest number of unsent RLC SDU(s). If the "Priority" bit is set in NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech parameter, then the bearer shall be selected according to 5G\_UP\_ALG\_31442\_replaced([11224057](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyFF9_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).*****\***

**ELSE:**

Select the non-GBR Bearer having highest number of unsent RLC SDU(s). If the "Priority" bit is set in NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech parameter, then the bearer shall be selected according to 5G\_UP\_ALG\_31442\_replaced([11224057](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyFF9_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

2. Discard "NRBTS.numNonGBRRlcSduDiscard" RLC SDU(s) of the selected DRB.

3. Mark the NR-U SNs as lost, as in the 5G\_UP\_ALG\_5750\_replaced([11221343](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kx1OUvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

RLC buffer usage threshold = ("NRBTS.rlcBufUsageThreshold" \* max RLC buffer size)/100

NRBTS.rlcBufUsageThreshold is NIDD parameter.

NRBTS.numNonGBRRlcSduDiscard is NIDD parameter.

max RLC buffer size is the max number of RLC PDU/SDU packet which can be stored by L2-HI.

**Note: NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech is by default enabled if DC-GBR feature is activated.**

Rationale

1. Discarding of RLC SDU for non-GBR DRB is done to allow buffer availability for GBR DRB. This enabled GBR prioritization wrt of RLC Buffer.
2. Discarding of RLC SDU for non-GBR DRB with highest number of RLC SDU is done to allow to ensure fair utilization of RLC Buffer among non-GBR DRB's.
3. DC-GBR bearers are prioritized over the non-GBR and other GBR services.

---

## 4.20.0-3 RLC SDU Discard Algorithm RLC PDU discard due to RLC Buffer is Full in the Uplink (ID: 11225667)

**4.20.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11225675`)

RLC SDU Discard Algorithm
On reception of AMD PDUs or byte segments of AMD PDUs 5G-L2-HI shall,

* Discard the received byte segments if the current RLC buffer at 5G-L2-HI excluding the RLC PDU which is already sent to 5G-L2-LO is full.

---

## 4.20.0-4 RLC SDU Discard Algorithm 5G-L2-HI (DU) Buffer Overflow Protection (ID: 11225680)

**4.20.0-4.0-1**  (ID: `11225687`)

RLC SDU Discard Algorithm
5G-L2-HI (DU) overflow protection at critical level

---

**4.20.0-4.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11225700`)

RLC SDU Discard Algorithm
When the 5G-L2-HI (DU) receives a RLC SDU from 5G-L2-HI (CU) and the BIP Pool has only *bipPoolCriticalMargin free descriptors, 5G-L2-HI shall:*

 Discard this SDU.

 Peg the DL\_SDU\_DISC\_BOP\_DU counter.

 [PR839080] Mark the NR-U SNs as lost, as in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_5750\_replaced([11221343](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kx1OUvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).[End PR839080]

**[CB008600-B]**

gNB-DU (5G-L2-Hi DU) shall **not discard the SDU if it is for DC-GBR bearer.**

**[End CB008600-B]**

**[CB008118-A]**

gNB-DU (5G-L2-Hi DU) shall **not discard the SDU if it is for** MC-GBR bearer.\*\*\*\*

**[End CB008118-A]**

The 5G-L2-HI (DU) will calculate *bipPoolCriticalMargin value depending on the used configuration.*

---

**4.20.0-4.0-2**  (ID: `11225706`)

RLC SDU Discard Algorithm
5G-L2-HI (DU) overflow protection at non-critical level

---

**4.20.0-4.0-2.0-3**  (ID: `13401144`)

RLC SDU Discard Algorithm
When the 5G-L2-HI (DU) receives an RLC SDU and *NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech "BufferOverflow" bit is set*

* If RLC Buffer usage exceeds *NRBTS.bopThNonCriticalTraffic percent, 5G-L2-HI (DU) shall:*
* Identify the bearer which occupies the most of BIP pool resources.
* Report the Desired Buffer Size (DBS) of zero in the next Downlink Data Delivery Status (DDDS) of this bearer.
* 5G-L2-HI (DU) shall trigger the following actions if EITHER of the following conditions are satisfied:
* IF the RLC Buffer usage of a given Bearer Group is equal to or above the NRBTS.rlcBufOverflowThreshold
* IF the number of descriptors occupied in the BIP Pool is equal to or above the *bipPoolNonCriticalMargin.* (Refer Notes)\*\*

[CB014699-D] gNB-CU-UP shall exclude bearers that are marked for critical traffic (i.e, NRBTS.NRDRB.criticalDrbSchedEnabled set to True) from consideration for discard unless all active bearers are marked for critical traffic or only Critical traffic bearers have data (non-Critical bearers do not have data at the time of congestion or buffer overflow). [End CB014699-D]

*ACTIONS:*

* Identify the DRB (in the bearer group) which is **not DC-GBR and which is** not MC-GBR DRB and**occupies the most of BIP pool resources. If the "Priority" bit is set in NRBTS.actPdcpRlcBufCongOvlMech parameter, then the bearer shall be selected according to 5G\_UP\_ALG\_31442\_replaced([11224057](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyFF9_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).**\*\*\*\*
* Set the dropDepth variable initially to *NRBTS.bopNumRlcSduDiscard, otherwise recalculate the dropDepth as 2 \* ('previous dropDepth' - 'ms since the last discarding by this procedure').*
* Clamp the dropDepth between *NRBTS.bopNumRlcSduDiscard and 50% of the pool occupancy by this bearer.*
* Discard the dropDepth SDUs from the bearer occupying the largest part of the BIP pool.
* Peg the DL\_SDU\_DISC\_BOP\_DU counter.
* Mark the NR-U SNs as lost, as in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_5750\_replaced([11221343](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kx1OUvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

Notes:

* When it comes to the pool occupancy, 5G-L2-HI (DU) takes into account only RLC SDUs.
* If performance is not sufficient, 5G-L2-HI (DU) can run this procedure every few packets.
* *bipPoolNonCriticalMargin is an internal parameter whose value shall be calculated based on the BIP pool configuration such that it shall be lesser than or equal to the* bipPoolCriticalMargin.\*\*
* VoNR bearers are not explicitly excluded from the discarding as their buffering is low or non-existent due to flow control not enabled, they would not be the contributing bearers for the overflow and hence not impacted.

---
