# 4.4 PDCP security

## 4.4.0-2 PDCP security Ciphering and Deciphering (ID: 11223741)

**4.4.0-2.0-2**  (ID: `11223752`)

PDCP security
Ciphering is the last stage of the PDCP function in 5G-L2-HI during the transmission operation .i.e.

* In case of DRB, it shall be invoked after the PDCP PDU is prepared.
* When NULL (NEA0) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

5G-L2-HI shall cipher and pass the PDCP PDU unaltered to the RLC layer for further processing.

* When AES (128-NEA2) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

5G-L2-HI shall invoke the Ciphering function as per SEC\_90 and SEC\_86 by passing only DATA field of the PDCP PDU as the message part to be Ciphered in case of DRB instance.

 When ZUC (128-NEA3) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

o 5G-L2-HI shall invoke the Ciphering function as per SEC\_200 by passing only DATA field of the PDCP PDU as the message part to be Ciphered in case of DRB instance.

 When SNOW 3G (128-NEA1) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

o 5G-L2-HI shall invoke the Ciphering function as per SEC\_202 by passing only DATA field of the PDCP PDU as the message part to be Ciphered in case of DRB instance.

In case the SA bearer and SDAP DL Header Presence = Present, DATA field of the PDCP PDU is passed for Ciphering, shall exclude the SDAP header.

Deciphering is a PDCP function in 5G-L2-HI performed as part of during receive operation.

5G-L2-HI shall invoke Deciphering operation as the first function on receipt of the PDCP PDU from the RLC layer,

* When NULL (NEA0) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

Deciphering shall not alter the contents of the PDU.

* When AES (128-NEA2) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

Deciphering function as per the SEC\_90 and SEC\_86 shall be invoked.

 When ZUC (128-NEA3) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

Deciphering function as per the SEC\_200 shall be invoked.

 When SNOW 3G (128-NEA1) Ciphering algorithm is activated:

Deciphering function as per the SEC\_202 shall be invoked.

In case the ENDC SN split bearer / NRDC SN split bearer, DATA field of the PDCP PDU is passed for deciphering.

In case the SA bearer and SDAP UL Header Presence = Absent, DATA field of the PDCP PDU is passed for deciphering.

In case the SA bearer and SDAP UL Header Presence = Present, DATA field of the PDCP PDU passed for deciphering shall exclude the SDAP header.

5G-L2-HI shall use HW accelerated PDCP Ciphering and Deciphering algorithms using the SnowFish QAT.

[CB007487-B] 5G-L2-HI shall use HW cryptographic accelerator unit (CPT) for PDCP Ciphering and Deciphering algorithms implementing new OpenEM API v2.x in Marlin HW (ABIP board). [End CB007487-B]

---

## 4.4.1 Integrity protection and verification

**4.4.1.0-1**  (ID: `11223765`)

Integrity protection and verification
5G-L2-SRB shall support Integrity Protection

1. 5G-L2-SRB shall compute the MAC-I as described below:

a. When NULL (NIA0) Integrity protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall set the MAC-I to zero in every DL PDCP PDU prepared.

b. When AES (128-NEA2) Integrity function is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall compute the MAC-I as per the 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_44 and 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_45.

c. When ZUC (128-NIA3) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall compute the MAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_238.

d. When SNOW 3G (128-NIA1) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall compute the MAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_237.

1. The computed MAC-I shall be appended to the PDCP PDU prepared as per 5G\_UP\_IF\_3536\_replaced([11531155](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tWfpKPv1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) following the format specified in 5G\_UP\_IF\_3680\_replaced([11532642](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tWuSp_v1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).  After the Integrity Protection function is complete, 5G-L2-SRB shall invoke Ciphering operation as per 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6216\_replaced([11223741](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyDQwvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
2. On receipt of the UL PDCP PDU 5G-L2-SRB shall invoke Integrity verification function after Deciphering function.  As part of this, 5G-L2-SRB shall set the XMAC-I as given below:

a. When NULL (NIA0) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall ignore the received MAC-I.

b. When AES (128-NEA2) Integrity function is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall compute the XMAC-I as per the 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_44 and 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_45.

c. When ZUC (128-NIA3) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall compute the XMAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_238.

d. When SNOW 3G (128-NIA1) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-SRB shall compute the XMAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_237.

1. 5G-L2-SRB shall check if received MAC-I and computed XMAC-I matches. If the verification is successful, then the PDCP PDU is further processed as per 5G\_UP\_IF\_3549\_replaced([11531247](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tWgQPfv1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)). If the verification is unsuccessful then the PDCP PDU is discarded and log all the necessary information.

---

## 4.4.2 User Plane Integrity protection and verification

### 4.4.2.0-1 User Plane Integrity protection and verification 5G-L2-HI shall support Integrity Protection and Verification for DRBs (ID: 11223779)

**4.4.2.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11223786`)

User Plane Integrity protection and verification
Integrity Protection in the DL

1. 5G-L2-HI shall compute the MAC-I as described below:

a. When AES (128-NEA2) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-HI shall compute the MAC-I as per the 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_375.

b. When ZUC (128-NIA3) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-HI shall compute the MAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_379.

c. When SNOW 3G (128-NIA1) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-HI shall compute the MAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_377.

1. The computed MAC-I shall be appended to the PDCP PDU prepared as per 5G\_UP\_IF\_3536\_replaced([11531155](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tWfpKPv1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) following the format specified in 5G\_UP\_IF\_3680\_replaced([11532642](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tWuSp_v1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

Integrity Verification in the UL

1. On receipt of the UL PDCP PDU 5G-L2-HI shall invoke Integrity verification function after Deciphering function.  As part of this, 5G-L2-HI shall set the XMAC-I as given below:

a. When AES (128-NEA2) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-HI shall compute the XMAC-I as per the 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_375.

b. When ZUC (128-NIA3) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-HI shall compute the XMAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_379.

c. When SNOW 3G (128-NIA1) Integrity Protection algorithm is activated 5G-L2-HI shall compute the XMAC-I as per 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_377.

1. 5G-L2-HI shall check if received MAC-I and computed XMAC-I matches. If the verification is successful, then the PDCP PDU is further processed as per 5G\_UP\_IF\_3549\_replaced([11531247](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tWgQPfv1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)). If the verification is unsuccessful then the PDCP PDU is discarded and log all the necessary information.
2. If the number of consecutive PDCP PDU discards due to the failure of integrity verification exceeds rdNumOfConsecutiveDrbIpFailures, 5G-L2-HI shall send [Before CNI-88099-F] HiUserCu\_BearerErrorInd [CNI-88099-F] Bearer Error Indication Message [End CNI-88099-F] with cause "UP Integrity Protection Failure" to C-plane.  rdNumOfConsecutiveDrbIpFailures is a R&D parameter defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_12019\_replaced([11223838](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyD31PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

## 4.4.3 COUNT Rollover Monitoring

### 4.4.3.0-1 COUNT Rollover Monitoring (ID: 11223799)

**4.4.3.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11223812`)

COUNT Rollover Monitoring
5G-L2-HI shall check for PDCP COUNT rollover after the submission/reception of the PDCP PDU to AM RLC layer, using procedure given below,

1. Update COUNT\_INIT using formula:

MOD(COUNT + keyRefrMarg, COUNT\_MAX) == COUNT\_INIT.

[Before CB008490-FB]

2. When MOD(COUNT, COUNT\_MAX) == COUNT\_INIT, PDCP layer shall

[CB008490-FB]

2. When MOD(COUNT, COUNT\_MAX) >= COUNT\_INIT, PDCP layer shall

[End CB008490-FB]

For Standalone bearer

* Stop the DL processing and start buffering the DL PDCP SDUs received over the the NG-U interface
* Discard UL GTP-U PDU's received on the F1-U tunnel.

For SN terminated split bearer

* Stop processing and discard the UL RLC PDU(s) and DL GTP-U messages

gNB-CU-UP  shall inform the gNB-CU-CP.

COUNT is per RB and per direction, i.e. the above shall happen for each RB (SRB and DRB) and for UL and DL independently.

Refer to 5G\_UP\_IF\_3731\_replaced([11533117](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tWzLKPv1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for COUNT maintenance.

Refer to 5G\_RAN\_SEC\_31 for additional details.

[CB008490-FB]

Note: gNB-CU-UP shall indicate to gNB-CU-CP only once, the first instance when the threshold is breached.

[End CB008490-FB]

---

## 4.4.4 PDCP Lock step for SRB1

**4.4.4.0-1**  (ID: `11223826`)

PDCP Lock step for SRB1
The PDCP lock step function for SRB 1 shall be defined in the following phases

Phase1-No Security:

Downlink

The MAC-I is set to 0.

Uplink

The received MAC-I’s shall be ignored and the messages shall be forwarded to C-Plane.

Phase2-Lock Step:

Downlink

Integrity protection for the PDCP PDU shall be done.

Ciphering shall be done except for the PDCP PDU that cause PDCP lock step activation.

Uplink

Integrity verification shall be done based on corresponding MAC-I.

Deciphering is not performed for the PDCP PDU.

The PDCP SDU plus verification result shall be forwarded to C-Plane.

5G-L2-SRB shall pause processing of next message and wait for indication from C-plane to resume.

Note: Upon reception of the security deactivation, 5G-L2-SRB shall exit lock step and security function shall be applied as defined in "Phase1-No Security".

Phase3-Security Activated:

Downlink

Integrity protection and ciphering is performed.

Uplink

Integrity verification shall be based on corresponding MAC-I.

Deciphering is performed for the message.

The message shall be forwarded only if integrity verification is successful.

C-Plane shall trigger the transition from/to different phases.

1) SRB1 shall move to Phase1-No Security at SRB setup or Security deactivation

2) SRB1 shall move to Phase2-Lock Step when CPlane request for PDCP lock step activation.

3) SRB1 shall move to Phase3-Security Activated when CPlane request for Security Activation.

PDCP Lock step is not applicable during mobility.

---

## 4.4.5 R&amp;D Parameters

### 4.4.5.0-1 R&amp;D Parameters rdNumOfConsecutiveDrbIpFailures (ID: 11223838)

**4.4.5.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11223845`)

R&D Parameters
rdNumOfConsecutiveDrbIpFailures

Description: This parameter defines the number of consecutive PDCP PDU discards due to the failure of integrity verification for a DRB to send a DRB error message to C Plane.

Value range: 1...100

Default value: 10

Unit: N/A

Online modifiable: No

Step Size: 1

Specified in: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_12024\_replaced([11223779](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kyDQyPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

---
