# 6.9 PS-SRSBM EO

## 6.9.0-1 PS-SRSBM EO FA: [Internal Domain] NRT(SRS EO) Document Owner: Haifeng Qian (NSB) (ID: 11246637)

## 6.9.1 PS-SRSBM EO Functionality View

**6.9.1.0-2**  (ID: `13431399`)

PS-SRSBM EO Functionality View
File: <https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/5Gdoc/AS_Tech_Spec/Drawings%20and%20diagrams%20for%205G/User%20Plane/5G%20L2%20Entity%20Level/2%205G-L2-PS%20Component%20Requirements/5G_L2_6489_SRSBM_EO.vsd?d=w6da041a763554e899149c9eaf928be7b&csf=1&web=1&e=rMqItr>

[image-0][image\_desc]The image is a diagram illustrating a system architecture. It features three rectangular components, each with two small rectangular ports on the left side. The components are labeled as follows:
1. **Message Handling**: Located at the top center.
2. **Timer Wheel Handling**: Located at the bottom left.
3. **Beam Selection**: Located at the bottom center.
There are lines connecting these components, indicating relationships or data flow. A line connects "Message Handling" to "Timer Wheel Handling" and another line connects "Message Handling" to "Beam Selection". Additionally, a line connects "Timer Wheel Handling" to "Beam Selection". The diagram is rendered in black and white.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m24dng\_5G\_L2\_Entity\_Level\_file\_16698.001.png[/image\_path][/image-0]

[CB015122-A]Note: When actSrsBmCalcInL1 is set to True in PsCnfg\_AddressDistributionReq, the PS-SRSBM Execution Object (EO) shall not be instantiated for FR1 TDD deployments, as specified in [13431287](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_94zEox4KEfG9L99MQBns2Q?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9).[End CB015122-A]

The functionalities of PS-SRSBM EO are illustrated in above figure, which are grouped in following categories:

· **Asynchronous Event Processing**

 To group the message / event handling routines being triggered upon message / event reception from other L2-PS internal EO (e.g. PS-SGNL EO, PS-UL EO). As the consequence, cell context and/or UE context are updated and stored in L2-PS internal database.

· **Slot Run**

o To group the functionalities being executed for

1) The timer wheel handling for beam age timer and beam selection timer.

2) Beam Selection functionalities to calculate best and second-best beam.

---

### 6.9.1.1 Asynchronous Event Processing functionalities

**6.9.1.1.0-1**  (ID: `11246664`)

Asynchronous Event Processing functionalities
[CNI-80481]SRSBM EO handles following messages / events

∙    PsInternal messages / events forwarded by PS Signaling EO, which is usually a direct copy of external messages from other SCs, e.g. PsInternal\_CellSetupReq, PsInternal\_UserSetupReq, PsInternal\_CellReconfigurationReq, PsInternal\_CellStopSchedulingReq,   PsInternal\_UserModifyReq, PsInteral\_UserDeleteInd, etc.

∙    Messages / Events forwared by PS-UL EO, which is a direct forward of external message from L1-UL, e.g. UlData\_SrsReceiveRespBmPs.

[END CNI-80481]

---

### 6.9.1.2 SlotSynchroInd Event handling

**6.9.1.2.0-1**  (ID: `11246678`)

SlotSynchroInd Event handling
[CNI-80481]

Following functionalities are invovled:

∙   Timer wheel handling to check if rrmDlBeamSelectTimer and rrmCoMaAgedTimer expires. If rrmCoMaAgedTimer expires, execute 5G\_L2\_6302\_replaced([11154626](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_240zevvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

∙   Beam selection to calculate best and second-best beams if rrmDlBeamSelectTimer expires, see 5G\_L2\_6564\_replaced([11154888](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_242BlPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

[END CNI-80481]

---
