# 4.1 General

## 4.1.0-1 General Document Owner Zablotny, Bartosz (Nokia - PL/Wroclaw) (ID: 10986685)

## 4.1.1 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers

### 4.1.1.0-1 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers Bearer Index and Bearer Group Selection (ID: 10986695)

**4.1.1.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `10986700`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
[Refer to 5G\_UP\_1912\_replaced([11376598](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ueSAWPvkEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for overview on Bearer Index and Bearer Group concepts]

[5GC000578-A] The RLC entity in L2-HI shall support a separate range of bearer groups for SRB. The PDCP entity in L2-HI shall not support SRB.

bearerIndex and bearerGroup are selected by CPlane before each bearer is created to L2NRT instance (5G-L2-HI).

CPlane can then configure bearer to 5G-L2-LO with the correct event queue ID and bearer index. These are needed by 5G-L2-LO in LoData interface towards 5G-L2-HI.

bearerIndex is coded into 13 bits.

bearerGroup is coded into 16 bits.

Bearer Group Selection Algorithm

The target for bearer group selection should be to have equal high load in each bearer group in L2NRT instance.

Concrete algorithm of bearer group selection for DRB's is defined in  5G\_L3\_5669\_replaced([11071159](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BDafb__KEe-D3seUwaI0tg)).

[5GC000578-A] The concrete algorithm of bearer group selection for SRB's is defined in 5G\_CP\_ARC\_ALG\_1290\_replaced([11256295](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_TnpOyfvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

Bearer Index Selection Algorithm

When BearerGroup has been selected, the first free bearer index within that bearerGroup shall be selected.

Concrete algorithm of bearer index selection for DRB's is defined in 5G\_L3\_5670\_replaced([11071164](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BDafcP_KEe-D3seUwaI0tg)).

[5GC000578-A] The concrete algorithm of bearer index selection for SRB's is defined in 5G\_CP\_ARC\_ALG\_1290\_replaced([11256295](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_TnpOyfvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

### 4.1.1.0-2 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers Bearer Index and Bearer Group Range (ID: 10986705)

**4.1.1.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `10986710`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
[Refer to 5G\_UP\_1912\_replaced([11376598](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ueSAWPvkEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for overview on Bearer Index and Bearer Group concepts]

Bearer Group

For DRB's : BearerGroup range is within 0…. **[Before CNI-93956] numOfBearerGroups-1** [CNI-93956] (size of drbInfo.addressing list)-1 **[End CNI-93956] .**\*\*\*\*

**[Before CNI-93956] numOfBearerGroups** [CNI-93956] Number of bearer groups **[End CNI-93956] is provided to CPlane in HiCnfgCu\_AddressDistributionResp** and HiCnfgDu\_AddressDistributionResp**. [CNI-93956] It shall be deducted from the size of drbInfo.receiverAddress list.** [End CNI-93956] The value shall be decided by 5G-L2-HI internally but it shall not exceed MAX\_NUM\_BEARER\_GROUPS.***\******\***

For SRB's : BearerGroup range is within 0…. **[Before CNI-93956] numOfSrbGroups -1** [CNI-93956] (size of srbInfo.addressing list)-1 **[End CNI-93956] .**\*\*\*\*

The RLC entity shall provide, to the C-Plane, the number of bearer groups reserved for SRB as **[Before CNI-93956] numOfSrbGroups** [CNI-93956] srbInfo.receiverAddress list size **[End CNI-93956] in the HiCnfgDu\_AddressDistributionResp. The value is currently suggested to be 1 and shall not exceed MAX\_NUM\_BEARER\_GROUPS.**\*\*\*\*

Bearer Index

For DRB's : Bearer index range is within 0….numOfBearersPerBearerGroup-1.

numOfBearersPerBearerGroup is provided to CPlane in HiCnfgCu\_AddressDistributionResp **and HiCnfgDu\_AddressDistributionResp**. The value shall be calculated by 5G-L2-HI as ROUNDUP(MAX\_NUM\_BEARERS\_PER\_L2\_NRT / numBearerGroups).\*\*\*\*

For SRB's : BearerGroup range is within 0…. numOfSrbsPerSrbGroup -1.

The RLC entity in L2-HI shall provide, to the C-Plane, the number of SRBs per SRB bearer group as numOfSrbsPerSrbGroup in the HiCnfgDu\_AddressDistributionResp.

**Defines:**

**Incase of vDU deployment,**

Set MAX\_NUM\_BEARER\_GROUPS = **[Before CNI-93956] 1** [CNI-93956] 3 **[End CNI-93956] ,**\*\*\*\*

Else  (default case)

Set MAX\_NUM\_BEARER\_GROUPS = 6 (i.e. Number of bearer groups is 6 for all deployments except vDU)

MAX\_NUM\_OF\_BEARERS\_PER\_BEARER\_GROUP = ROUNDUP(MAX\_NUM\_BEARERS\_PER\_L2\_NRT/MAX\_NUM\_BEARER\_GROUPS)

MAX\_NUM\_BEARERS\_PER\_L2\_NRT is a result of: NUM\_OF\_DRBS\_PER\_BBU  / NUM\_OF\_L2HI\_INSTANCES

where:

* NUM\_OF\_DRBS\_PER\_BBU is defined in by:
* Classical BTS:
  + NR: [Classic\_gNB\_Capacity\_Requirements.xlsm](https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/5GSystemEngineering/RRM_Telecom_TD/CP_Domain/Shared%20Documents/P%26C%20Tools/Classic_gNB_Capacity_Requirements.xlsm?d=w20b0196ffae54b19bd4a0982ccc1c2f6&csf=1&web=1&e=ev7xxk&nav=MTVfe0UyQzgzNTI1LUY1RTUtNDI1Ri05REFFLTk1MDc5NkNFNDZGNn0)
  + MRAT: [SRAN RATs Capacity Tool](https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/sites/ASCOP/C%26P/Shared%20Documents/SRAN%20RATs%20Capacity%20Tool?csf=1&web=1&e=0Naddf)
* Cloud BTS:

  + vCU: [5G\_Cloud\_gNB\_Capacity.xlsx](https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/5GSystemEngineering/RRM_Telecom_TD/CP_Domain/Shared%20Documents/P%26C%20Tools/5G_Cloud_gNB_Capacity.xlsx?d=w6b7f4cca762e4d6192f36208b964eb47&csf=1&web=1&e=jSKUzu&nav=MTVfezA1M0MxNEE1LURDMDEtNDk0Ni1BNUQ5LTM4OEFDNkUwN0E5QX0)
  + vDU: [5G\_Cloud\_gNB-DU\_Capacity.xlsm](https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/5GSystemEngineering/RRM_Telecom_TD/CP_Domain/Shared%20Documents/P%26C%20Tools/5G_Cloud_gNB-DU_Capacity.xlsm?d=w9dccc8c7bdf7418da85b615dfa7a47a8&csf=1&web=1&e=zPare6&nav=MTVfezQ2MjFBNzMwLUVENTQtNEVFQy1BRTU2LTRCRjcyOTI3MUNDRH0)
* NUM\_OF\_L2HI\_INSTANCES is defined in by:
* Classical BTS: [BTS\_Software\_Deployments.xlsm](https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/ASCOP/PA/Shared%20Documents/BTS%20Architecture/BTS%20Software%20Architecture%20Specification/BTS%20Software%20Deployment%20Specification/BTS_Software_Deployments.xlsm?d=w143666a9e899497285bd0777e8d7eff8&csf=1&web=1&e=lr6p17&nav=MTVfezlBMkZGMTEzLTkzODItNEVDRC05RDE0LTBCNDBDNDg5MDMwRn0)
* Cloud BTS:
  + vCU: [CRUM\_Tool\_vCU.xlsm](https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/5GSystemEngineering/Cloud_Domain/Controlled_Docs/CNF%20structure%20and%20resource%20needs/vCU/CRUM_Tool_vCU.xlsm?d=wf283b6ce2db043928263dbbb9d1184be&csf=1&web=1&e=nzL2pS&nav=MTVfezUyNjgzMzAxLTI2MTAtNEJBQi1CMUQ2LTg2MEM0OEM0MjY1MX0)
  + vDU: [CRUM\_Tool\_vDU.xlsm](https://nokia.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/5GSystemEngineering/Cloud_Domain/Controlled_Docs/CNF%20structure%20and%20resource%20needs/vDU/CRUM_Tool_vDU.xlsm?d=w0ea859f567d0409c8e7a754fa3bfb01f&csf=1&web=1&e=4FzYlw&nav=MTVfezcyRjhCNUQyLUIxQjEtNEVBMC05M0I2LUEyNDIxN0E2Rjc4Q30)

**[CNI-93956] Rationale: MAX\_NUM\_BEARER\_GROUPS for default case is higher than core count. It is done to provide interface flexibility and simplify performance testing.** [End CNI-93956]\*\*\*\*

---

### 4.1.1.0-3 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers PDU Session Index and PDU Session Group Range (ID: 10986715)

**4.1.1.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `10986720`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
[Refer to 5G\_UP\_1913\_replaced([11376604](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ueSAWfvkEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for overview of PDU Session Index and PDU Session Group concept]

PDU Session Group

PDU Session Group range is within 0…. numOfPduSessionGroups-1.

numOfPduSessionGroups is provided to CPlane in HiCnfgCu\_AddressDistributionResp. The value shall be chosen by 5G-L2-HI internally, but it shall not exceed MAX\_NUM\_PDU\_SESSION\_GROUPS.

PDU Session Index

PDU Session Index range is within 0…. numOfPduSessionPerPduSessionGroup-1.

numOfPduSessionPerPduSessionGroup is provided to CPlane in HiCnfgCu\_AddressDistributionResp. The value shall be chosen by 5G-L2-HI internally, but it shall not exceed MAX\_NUM\_PDU\_SESSIONS.

Defines:

MAX\_NUM\_PDU\_SESSION\_GROUPS = 2

MAX\_NUM\_PDU\_SESSIONS = MAX\_NUM\_BEARERS\_PER\_L2\_NRT (see 5G\_L2\_IF\_966\_replaced([10986705](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WRCWfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

---

### 4.1.1.0-4 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers Board Index (ID: 10986725)

**4.1.1.0-4.0-1**  (ID: `10986728`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
[Before 5GC000829-A]

Board Index can get by the HWAPI EmGetBoardId() from the wrap\_EmOffers.hpp

Soc Index can get by the HWAPI EmGetSocId() from the wrap\_EmOffers.hpp

[5GC000829-A]

Slot Index can get by the HWAPI GetBoardSlotId() from the

[End 5GC000829-A]

---

### 4.1.1.0-5 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers TEID management at 5G-L2-HI (ID: 10986733)

**4.1.1.0-5.0-2**  (ID: `10986744`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
TEID allocation

* [Before CNI-109641-A] In case rd1514TeIdMappingLogicFlag is set to ‘0’, 5G-L2-HI shall allocate the new TEID in the format as defined in 5G\_L2\_2200\_replaced([11221946](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_h4bPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)). [End CNI-109641-A]

 5G-L2-HI shall maintain list for free “Mapping Index” and when new TEID needs to be allocated, it shall choose the oldest "Mapping Index" from this list.

 5G-L2-HI shall choose the “local Queue Id” based on the interface for which new TEID needs to be allocated.

[Before CNI-109641-A] In case rd1514TeIdMappingLogicFlag is set to ‘1’,

* 5G-L2-HI shall fetch the L2 path id corresponding to the selected local queue EQID from the TEID mapping table (refer 5G\_L2\_IF\_971\_replaced([10986749](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WRpYvu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)))
* 5G-L2-HI shall allocate the new TEID in the format as defined in 5G\_L2\_2202\_replaced([11221975](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_ifcPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)). [End CNI-109641-A]

 5G-L2-HI shall maintain mapping between the TEID and Bearer Index for Bearer Specific GTP-U tunnel.

 5G-L2-HI shall maintain mapping between the TEID and PDU Session for the PDU session specific GTP-U tunnel.

TEID release

 5G-L2-HI shall update the list for free “Mapping Index” with the released “Mapping Index” on releasing the TEID.

 5G-L2-HI shall release mapping between the "Mapping Index" of the interface TEID and Bearer Index.

 5G-L2-HI shall release mapping between the TEID and Bearer Index for Bearer Specific GTP-U tunnel.

 5G-L2-HI shall release mapping between the TEID and PDU Session for the PDU session specific GTP-U tunnel.

Rationale:

 When a Mapping Index is released, there could still be some data that is received for old bearer which was using this Mapping Index for the TEID. In such a case, allocating a just released Mapping Index to a new bearer could cause a mismatch with the data received.

 To avoid such scenario, when a new TEID needs to be allocated, the oldest Mapping Index shall be chosen from the list of free Mapping Index.

[CNI-109641-A]

Due to common code for Classical and Cloud, rd1514TeIdMappingLogicFlag is removed (there is one common TEID format that can be found under 5G\_L2\_15625\_replaced([11221929](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_h4avvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

[End CNI-109641-A]

---

### 4.1.1.0-6 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers TEID mapping table maintenance in 5G-L2-HI (ID: 10986749)

**4.1.1.0-6.0-1**  (ID: `10986755`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
TEID mapping table consists of EM queue id to [Before CB008140-AC] 5G-L2-HI [End CB008140-AC] [CB008140-AC] L2 [End CB008140-AC] path id mapping. It is used for generation of TEID.

5G-L2-HI shall retrieve the board slot id(0~7), default queue and local queue EQIDs reserved for the interfaces (S1-U, X2-U etc.,) using platform UPHWAPI APIs (refer 5G\_L2\_IF\_5140\_replaced([10986769](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WRpZvu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for EQIDs reserved for interfaces). (refer NOTE below)

5G-L2-HI shall perform the following for each local queue EQID:

- Generate the [Before CB008140-AC] 5G-L2-HI [End CB008140-AC] [CB008140-AC] L2 [End CB008140-AC] path id in the format described in 5G\_L2\_2202\_replaced([11221975](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_ifcPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

- Assign the generated [Before CB008140-AC] 5G-L2-HI [End CB008140-AC] [CB008140-AC] L2 [End CB008140-AC] path id to the local queue EQID.

- Store the local queue EQID and generated [Before CB008140-AC] 5G-L2-HI [End CB008140-AC] [CB008140-AC] L2 [End CB008140-AC] path id in TEID mapping table refer to 5G\_L2\_IF\_5137\_replaced([10986760](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WRpZPu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

NOTE:

For Cloud deployment, 5G-L2-HI in gNB-CU shall set Board slot id to '0'.

---

### 4.1.1.0-7 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers TEID mapping table for cloud CU/DU and classical BTS (ID: 10986760)

**4.1.1.0-7.0-1**  (ID: `10986763`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
One TEID mapping table for cloud CU and classical BTS, which will be sent by HicnfgCu\_AddressDistributionResp to 5G-CP-NRT. The TeidMappingTable include the DL SDAP, DL PDCP, Ul PDCP EMQueueId with the corresponding pathId, which could cover UPF sending the DL GTP-U PDU over NG-U interface, NG-RAN send data forwarding over Xn-U interface, the S-GW sending the DL GTP-U PDU over S1-U interface, MeNB sending the DL forwarding data  over X2-U interface, MeNB send the UL split GTP-U PDU over X2-U interface, 5G-L2-HI (DU) sending UL GTP-U PDU to 5G-L2-HI (CU) over F1-U interface.

Another TEID mapping table is for cloud DU, which will be sent by HicnfgDu\_AddressDistributionResp to 5G-CP-RT. TeidMappingTable include the DL RLC EMQueueId with the corresponding pathId, which could cover 5G-L2-HI (CU) sending the DL GTP-U PDU to 5G-L2-HI (DU) over F1-U interface.

---

### 4.1.1.0-8 Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers Local Queue ID ranges per interface (ID: 10986769)

**4.1.1.0-8.0-1**  (ID: `10986773`)

Bearer and PDU Session Identifiers
5G-L2-HI shall use following Local Queue ID ranges per interface

Rationale:

* RCP uses hardcoded Local Queue ID (16bit) ranges per interface
* RCP drops traffic for which Local Queue ID does not match to the range defined for the interface type (S1-U, X2-U, F1-U)

Before RCP2.0:

Ingress:

* 19~22 for S1-U interface,
* 18 S1-U default queue,

Egress:

* 0 for S1-U interface

RCP2.0 onwards:

Ingress:

[Before 5GC001726-H]

 ~26 for X2-U interface

 ~22 for S1-U interface

 ~26 for F1-U interface

 [5GC000752-A]27~28 for NG-U interface

* 18 as S1-U / F1-U / X2-U default queue
* 5GC000752-A] 18 as NG-U default queue

[Before PR484442] [5GC001726-H]Bearer group numbers and deployment cores are extened to 6 for L2HI on slave xeon of system           board ,so static queues are changed based on new deployment.

[PR484442]static queue usage is changed as below for both new deployment and original deployment.

 ~30 for X2-U interface

 ~24 for S1-U interface

 ~30 for F1-U interface

 31~32 for NG-U interface

* 18 as S1-U / F1-U / X2-U/NG-U default queue

Egress:

* 0 for S1-U/X2-U/Xn-U interface (user plane to transport)
* 5GC000752-A] 0 for NG-U interface (user plane to transport)
* 3 for F1-U interface (user plane to transport)

Note: RCP2.0 or TRSW should provides a configuration file which can be filled accordingly. RCP or TRSW allows to deviate from above via configuration file (for example use separate queue for X2-U).

Note: 5G-L2-HI (DU) uses static queue 17 as default queue to handle received GTP error indication. Otherwise DU uses dynamic queues.

[5GC001726-H]Static queue 16 is usedfor GtpGenerator on SCT target.

---
