# 3.3 Protocols

## 3.3.1 RLC

### 3.3.1.1 Status(placehold)

### 3.3.1.2 Segment(placehold)

### 3.3.1.3 RLC Mode and SN length

#### 3.3.1.3.0-1 RLC Mode and SN length PDCP SN and RLC SN combinations (ID: 11215624)

**3.3.1.3.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11215631`)

RLC Mode and SN length
DRB configuration supports the combination of 12 bits PDCP SN length and RLC UM Mode using 12 bits RLC SN.

The Others PDCP SN and RLC SN combination, which can refer to 5G\_UP\_ALG\_16067\_replaced([11217612](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kxf3IfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

## 3.3.2 MAC

**3.3.2.0-1**  (ID: `11215642`)

MAC
Upon reception of message LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq for a 5G-UE (identified by C-RNTI and cellId/subcellId),

* if IE requestType indicates a TB build request, 5G-L2-LO shall
* assemble a 5G-MAC PDU as described in 5G\_L2\_1959\_replaced([11216437](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ew_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)),
* store the assembled 5G-MAC PDU for possibly required HARQ retransmissions (see 5G\_L2\_1975\_replaced([11217530](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_ElaPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for details) and
* follow 5G\_L2\_1977\_replaced([11216513](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ezvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) to send the assembled 5G-MAC PDU to 5G-L1-DL, to update PM counters and to possibly send DL BSR to 5G-L2-PS
* if IE requestType indicates a TB retransmission request, 5G-L2-LO shall
* send the stored 5G-MAC PDU identified by the sub-cell specific IE dlHarqBufferIndex to 5G-L1-DL (see 5G\_L2\_1959\_replaced([11216437](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ew_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and 5G\_L2\_1977\_replaced([11216513](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ezvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

---

### 3.3.2.1 DL MAC sub header structures

**3.3.2.1.0-2**  (ID: `13309430`)

DL MAC sub header structures
**5G-MAC sub-headers for DL-SCH**

There are three types of 5G-MAC sub-headers for DL-SCH:

The R/R/LCID sub-header (1 byte) is used for Padding and for fixed-sized 5G-MAC CEs.

The R/F/LCID/L short sub-header (2 bytes) is used for variable-sized 5G-MAC CEs and 5G-MAC SDUs whose length is smaller than 256 bytes.

The R/F/LCID/L long sub-header (3 bytes) is used for the 5G-MAC SDUs whose length is bigger than 255 bytes.

5G-L2-LO shall create an R/R/LCID sub-header with the following fields:

* Bit 0 (MSB): Reserved bit, set to 0.
* Bit 1: Reserved bit, set to 0.
* Bits 2 … 7: LCID value, set to the value of IE logicalChannelIdentity of *LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq whereby*
* 000000b corresponds to CCCH (SRB0),
* 000001b-100000b is the valid range for logical channel identities,
* [CB006093-A] 101111b (47 dec) for MAC CE Recommended bit rate,[End CB006093-A]
* 111110b for MAC CE UE Contention Resolution Identity,
* 111101b for MAC CE Timing Advance Command,
* 111111b for Padding,
* 111010b for MAC SCell Activation/Deactivation (1 octet) Command
* 111001b for MAC SCell Activation/Deactivation (4 octet) Command
* 110100b for MAC TCI State Indication for UE-specific PDCCH

5G-L2-LO shall create an R/F/LCID/L sub-header in the same way. The additional fields shall be filled as follows:

* Bit 1: Format field indicates the size of Length field.

Value 0 indicates that Length field size is 8 bits.

Value 1 indicates that Length field size is 16 bits.

* Bits 8 … 15: 8-bit L field, set to the length of the corresponding 5G-MAC SDU or variable-sized 5G-MAC CE in bytes
* Bits 8 … 23: 16-bit L field, set to the length of the corresponding 5G-MAC SDU in bytes

---

### 3.3.2.2 UL MAC sub header structures

#### 3.3.2.2.0-1 UL MAC sub header structures 5G-MAC sub-headers for UL-SCH (ID: 11215666)

**3.3.2.2.0-1.0-3**  (ID: `13309453`)

UL MAC sub header structures
**5G-MAC sub-headers for UL-SCH**

MAC subheader structure shall follow the structure in DL, 5G\_L2\_1970\_replaced([11215653](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-5mSPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), except for the LCID mapping.

For UL-SCH LCID mapping 5G-L2-LO shall use following table:

* 000000b (0 dec) for CCCH of size 64 bits (see note below),
* 000001b-100000b (1-32 dec) for the identity of the logical channel,
* 100011b (35 dec) for CCCH of size 48 bits for Reduced Capability UE,
* 110100b (52 dec) for CCCH of size 48 bits (see note below),
* [CB006093-A] 110101b (53 dec) for MAC CE Recommended bit rate query, [End CB006093-A]
* 111000b (56 dec) for MAC CE multiple PHR,
* 111001b (57 dec) for MAC CE single PHR,
* 111010b (58 dec) for MAC CE C-RNTI,
* 111011b (59 dec) for MAC CE Short Truncated BSR
* 111100b (60 dec) for MAC CE Long Truncated BSR
* 111101b (61 dec) for MAC CE Short BSR,
* 111110b (62 dec) for MAC CE Long BSR (note that even for a single LCG, a long BSR might be send for padding BSR.)
* 111111b (63 dec) for Padding.

Following UL-SCH LCIDs are defined by 3GPP but not supported by Nokia. 5G-L2-LO shall discard these MAC sub-PDUs if received.

[Before CB006093-A]

* 110101b (53 dec) Recommended bit rate query

[End CB006093-A]

* 110110b (54 dec) Multiple Entry PHR (four octet Ci)
* 110111b (55dec) Configured Grant Confirmation

See the following notes regarding UL CCCH message size (TS 38.331):

The UL-CCCH-Message class is the set of 48bit RRC messages that may be sent from the UE to the Network on the uplink CCCH logical channel:

* RRCSetupRequest,
* RRCResumeRequest,
* RRCReestablishmentRequest,
* RRCSystemInfoRequest

The UL-CCCH1-Message class is the set of 64bit RRC messages that may be sent from the UE to the Network on the uplink CCCH1 logical channel:

RRCResumeRequest1

---

### 3.3.2.3 DL MAC Control Elements

#### 3.3.2.3.0-1 DL MAC Control Elements MAC CE: Timing Advance Command (ID: 11215690)

**3.3.2.3.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `13404526`)

DL MAC Control Elements
The MAC CE for **Timing Advance Command has a fixed 8 bit size and consists of following fields:**

* Bits 0 (MSB) - 1: TAG ID. [Before CB015279-B]Set to zero.[CB015279-B]Timing Advance Group Identity, set to the same value as IE *taMacCeTagId of* LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq (see [10984546](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WBKufu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).[End CB015279-B]\*\*
* Bits 2 - 7: Timing Advance Command, set to the same value as IE *taMacCeValue of* LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq (see [10984546](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WBKufu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).\*\*

See also section 6.1.3.4 in TS 38.321.

The MAC CE for **UE Contention Resolution Identity has a fixed 48 bits size and consists of a single field:**

* Bits 0 (MSB) - 47: UE Contention Resolution Identity, set to the UL CCCH SDU received in RACH Msg3 (see 5G\_L2\_6766\_replaced([11215932](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-7bcPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

for 3GPP SA, see also section 6.1.3.3 in TS 38.321.

---

#### 3.3.2.3.0-2 DL MAC Control Elements MAC CE: Recommended bit rate (ID: 13309714)

**3.3.2.3.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `13309716`)

DL MAC Control Elements
The Recommended bit rate MAC CE is defined in [12815685](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_qsMd4KcOEfCrANRYxAlR5A).

When 5G-L2LO receives the rbrMacCe IE within the LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq ([10984546](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WBKufu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) message, then 5G-L2LO shall create the Recommended bit rate MAC CE by setting its fields as follows:

[image-0][image\_desc]The image displays a diagram illustrating the structure of a "Recommended bit rate MAC CE". The diagram is divided into two octets, Oct 1 and Oct 2, and further subdivided into fields.
Oct 1 contains the following fields:
- LCID: This field occupies a significant portion of Oct 1.
- UL/DL: This field is positioned to the right of LCID.
- Bit Rate: This field is to the right of UL/DL.
Oct 2 contains the following fields:
- Bit Rate: This field occupies the left portion of Oct 2.
- X: This field is to the right of the "Bit Rate" field in Oct 2.
- R: This field is to the right of "X".
- R: This field is to the right of the first "R".
The diagram also includes tick marks at the top, suggesting a division into smaller units, likely bits. The text "Recommended bit rate MAC CE" is displayed below the diagram.

| Octet | Field 1 | Field 2 | Field 3 | Field 4 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Oct 1 | LCID | UL/DL | Bit Rate |  |
| Oct 2 | Bit Rate | X | R | R |

* LCID:      shall be set to the value from rbrMacCe:logicalChannelIdentity.
* UL/DL:    shall be set according to rbrMacCe:direction (0 for downlink, 1 for uplink).
* Bit Rate:  shall be set to the value from rbrMacCe:bitRateId.
* X:            shall be set to 0 (bit rate multiplier not supported).
* R:            shall be set to 0 (reserved bit).

---

**3.3.2.3.0-4**  (ID: `11215724`)

DL MAC Control Elements
MAC CE: TCI State Indication for UE-specific PDCCH

The TCI State Indication for UE-specific PDCCH MAC CE is identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in 5G\_L2\_1970\_replaced([11215653](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-5mSPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)). It has a fixed size of 16 bits with following fields:

- Serving Cell ID: The length of the field is 5 bits;

- CORESET ID: The length of the field is 4 bits;

- TCI State ID: The length of the field is 7 bits;

[image-0][image\_desc]The image contains a diagram with text labels. The diagram is structured as a table with two rows and two columns.
The top row is divided into two cells. The left cell contains the text "Serving Cell ID". The right cell contains the text "CORESET ID".
The bottom row is also divided into two cells. The left cell contains the text "CORE SET ID". The right cell contains the text "TCI State ID".
The overall structure suggests a data representation or a schematic of some sort, possibly related to telecommunications or networking, given the terminology.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m24dng\_5G\_L2\_Entity\_Level\_file\_11785.001.png[/image\_path][/image-0]

[3GPP TS 38.321] Figure 6.1.3.15-1: TCI State Indication for UE-specific PDCCH MAC CE

The values of the above parameters are defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_2104\_replaced([11112678](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpYc9fvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

### 3.3.2.4 UL MAC Control Elements

#### 3.3.2.4.0-1 UL MAC Control Elements 5G-MAC Control Elements (ID: 11215735)

**3.3.2.4.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `13329555`)

UL MAC Control Elements
**5G-MAC Control Elements**

* **C-RNTI MAC CE:**

The C-RNTI MAC CE has a fixed 16 bits size and consists of a single field:

* Bits 0 (MSB) - 15: C-RNTI

See also 5G\_UP\_IF\_2936\_replaced([11525182](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tVj1Cfv1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

* **Buffer Status Report (BSR) MAC CE:**

The short buffer status report MAC CE reports the buffer status of a single LCG. It has a fixed size and consists of a 3 bit field for the LCG ID and a buffer size field of 5 bits:

* Bits 0 .. 2: LCG ID
* Bits 3 .. 7: Buffer size index

The short truncated BSR MAC CE has the same format as the above short BSR MAC CE. Short truncated BSR means more than one LCG has data but the UE can only report one LCG BSR, where short BSR means only one LCG has data and is reported.

The long buffer status report MAC CE reports the buffer status of all LCGs with data available. It has a variable size and consists of a 8 bit field indicating the LCGs for which the buffer status is reported and a buffer size field of 8 bits for each of the indicated LCGs:

* Bits 0 .. 7: LCG indicator
* Bits 8 .. 15: Buffer size index 1
* ...
* Bits m*8 .. m*8-1: Buffer size index m

The long truncated BSR MAC CE has the same format as the above long BSR MAC CE. Different from long BSR, the LCG indicator field of long truncated BSR indicates whether the logical channel group has data available or not. For example, for logical channel group i, the LCGi field set to "1" indicates that logical channel group i has data available. The LCGi field set to "0" indicates that logical channel group i does not have data available. Due to the limited padding space, only some of the logical channels having data available for transmission will be reported by UE by following a decreasing order of priority, and in case of equal priority, in increasing order of LCGID.

* **Single and Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE:**

The Single Entry PHR MAC CE consists of two octets (see 3GPP 38.321 chapter 6.1.3.8). The structure of Single Entry PHR MAC CE is as follows:

[image-0][image\_desc]The image contains a table with two rows and three columns. The first two columns of both rows contain the letter "R". The third column of the first row contains the text "PH (Type X, PCell)". The third column of the second row contains the text "P\_CMAX,c 1".

|  |  | PH (Type X, PCell) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| R | R | P\_CMAX,c 1 |

* R: Reserved bit
* PH: Power Headroom of PCell
* PCMAX,c: Configured UE transmit power of serving cell c
* The Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE is described in [11215762](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-6NV_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ).

[CB06093-A]

* Recommended bit rate MAC CE query in UL is the same as in DL. Please refer to DL description [13309714](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_AdiKkMxvEfCVOOJMfwsFiw).

[End CB06093-A]

---

#### 3.3.2.4.0-2 UL MAC Control Elements Multiple Entry PHR MAC CEs. (ID: 11215762)

**3.3.2.4.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11215775`)

UL MAC Control Elements
Multiple Entry PHR MAC CEs.

The Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE consists of several octets (see 3GPP 38.321 chapter 6.1.3.9).

It’s used in case that UE is configured with MR-DC or in case of CA.

Note1: In NSA 3x UE shall always report Type 1 PH for PCell, where PCell corresponds to MCG (LTE).

Note2: The presence of the first entry: PH(Type2, SpCell of the other MAC entity) and its associated value is conditioned by the configuration of phr-Type2OtherCell. Currently phr-Type2OtherCell=False (TBC , assumption looks uncorrelated with 5G\_CP\_ARC\_ALG\_2754\_replaced([11304761](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Tqr7qvvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

According to the maximum value of SCellIndex of SCell configured in UL, UE will use:

Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE with single octet bitmap, or

Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE with four octet bitmap.

The Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE with the single octet bitmap, LCID (111000), is used for indicating the presence of PH per SCell when the highest ServCellIndex of Serving Cell with configured uplink is equal to or higher than 8 less than 8. The structure of Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE with single octet bitmap is as follows:

[image-0][image\_desc]The image contains a table with 8 rows and 7 columns. The columns are labeled C7, C6, C5, C4, C3, C2, C1, and R. The rows contain information about different types of cells and power control parameters.
Here is the table represented in markdown:

| C7 | C6 | C5 | C4 | C3 | C2 | C1 | R |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| P | V | PH (Type 2, SpCell of the other MAC entity) |  |  |  |  |  |
| R | R |  | PCMAX,fc 1 |  |  |  |  |
| P | V | PH (Type 1, PCell) |  |  |  |  |  |
| R | R |  | PCMAX,fc 2 |  |  |  |  |
| P | V | PH (Type X, Serving Cell 1) |  |  |  |  |  |
| R | R |  | PCMAX,fc 3 |  |  |  |  |
| P | V | PH (Type X, Serving Cell n) |  |  |  |  |  |
| R | R |  | PCMAX,fc m |  |  |  |  |

The Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE with four octets bitmap, LCID (110110), is used for indicating the presence of PH per SCell when the highest ServCellIndex of Serving Cell with configured uplink is less than 8  equal to or higher than 8. The structure of Multiple Entry PHR MAC CE with four octet bitmap is as follows:

[image-1][image\_desc]The image contains a table with 7 columns and 12 rows. The first 4 rows are filled with cell identifiers, ranging from C1 to C31. The remaining rows contain a mix of 'P', 'V', and 'R' labels in the first two columns, and descriptive text or formulas in the subsequent columns.

| Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 | Column 7 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| C7 | C6 | C5 | C4 | C3 | C2 | C1 |
| C15 | C14 | C13 | C12 | C11 | C10 | C9 |
| C23 | C22 | C21 | C20 | C19 | C18 | C17 |
| C31 | C30 | C29 | C28 | C27 | C26 | C25 |
| P | V | PH (Type 2, SpCell of the other MAC entity) |  |  |  |  |
| R | R | PCMAX,fc 1 |  |  |  |  |
| P | V | PH (Type 1, PCell) |  |  |  |  |
| R | R | PCMAX,fc 2 |  |  |  |  |
| P | V | PH (Type X, Serving Cell 1) |  |  |  |  |
| R | R | PCMAX,fc 3 |  |  |  |  |
| P | V | PH (Type X, Serving Cell n) |  |  |  |  |
| R | R | PCMAX,fc m |  |  |  |  |

The following legend is valid for the both tables above:

* Ci: Presence of PH for SCell i
* R: Reserved bit
* V: Basis of PH evaluation (real transmission or reference format)
* PH: Power Headroom of PCell, PSCell, or PUCCH
* P: Indicates the power backoff level
* PCMAX,c: Configured UE transmit power of serving cell c

Note: L2-LO Spec alignment with 19A code (DOORS session ID 24935)

---

#### 3.3.2.4.0-3 UL MAC Control Elements Configured Grant Confirmation MAC CE (ID: 11215784)

**3.3.2.4.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11215788`)

UL MAC Control Elements
The CGC (Configured Grant Confirmation) MAC CE is defined in 3GPP 38.321 Chapter 6.1.3.7.

The Configured Grant Confirmation MAC CE is identified by a MAC subheader with LCID(0X37) as specified in Table 6.2.1-2.

It has a fixed size of zero bits.

When L2-LO detect this CGC from UL DATA, it should mark the "isConfiguredGrantConfCe" in "LoCtrl\_UlMacPduReceiveInd" defined in 5G\_L2\_IF\_3473\_replaced([10984729](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WCY1_u6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

#### 3.3.2.4.0-4 UL MAC Control Elements MAC subheader for UL-CCCH (ID: 11215797)

**3.3.2.4.0-4.0-3**  (ID: `11215817`)

UL MAC Control Elements
The MAC subheader for UL CCCH is defined  in 3GPP 38.321 Chapter 6.2.1.

There are 4 LCIDs defined for MAC subheader for UL CCCH as specified in Table 6.2.1-2.

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| LCID | LCID values |
| 0 | CCCH of size 64 bits (referred to as "CCCH1" in TS 38.331 [5]), except for a RedCap UE |
| 35 | CCCH of size 48 bits (referred to as "CCCH" in TS 38.331 [5]) for a RedCap UE |
| 36 | CCCH of size 64 bits (referred to as "CCCH1" in TS 38.331 [5]) for a RedCap UE |
| 52 | CCCH of size 48 bits (referred to as "CCCH" in TS 38.331 [5]), except for a RedCap UE |

When L2-LO detect the MAC subheader for UL CCCH, L2-LO should inform the CCCH LCID to L2-PS by mark the "ccchLCID" in "LoCtrl\_UlMacPduReceiveInd" defined in 5G\_L2\_IF\_3473\_replaced([10984729](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WCY1_u6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)), L2-LO should also forward the CCCH contents to [Before CNI-134375]L2-HI [CNI-134375]CP-RT[End CNI-134375] by the interface "LoUser\_CcchDataReceiveInd" defined in 5G\_L2\_IF\_822\_replaced([10984071](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V9gVPu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

#### 3.3.2.4.0-5 UL MAC Control Elements Unsupported 5G-MAC Control Elements (ID: 11215824)

**3.3.2.4.0-5.0-3**  (ID: `13309688`)

UL MAC Control Elements
**Unsupported 5G-MAC Control Elements**

These UL MAC Control Elements are defined by 3GPP but they are not supported by Nokia. If 5G-L2-LO detects these during MAC PDU demultiplexing then the corresponding MAC sub-PDU shall be discarded.

**[Before CB006093-A]**

**Recommended bit rate query MAC CE**

This MAC sub-PDU has fixed size of two bytes.

**[End CB006093-A]**

---

## 3.3.3 GTP-U Protocol

### 3.3.3.0-1 GTP-U Protocol FA: L2-LO Document Owner: Andrzej Cholewinski (Nokia) (ID: 11215848)

### 3.3.3.1 GTP-U TEID Format

#### 3.3.3.1.0-1 GTP-U TEID Format Classical: TEID format for 5G-L2-LO used in gNB-DU(external) to gNB-DU (primary) communication (ID: 11215858)

**3.3.3.1.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11215876`)

GTP-U TEID Format
TEID format for the TEID allocated by 5G-L2-LO is defined below:

[image-0][image\_desc]The image displays a diagram illustrating the format of a "5G-L2-LO TEID" which is 32 bits in total. The diagram is divided into four sections, representing different bit ranges.
The title of the diagram is "5G-L2-LO TEID format (32 bits)".
Below the title, there is a horizontal bar representing the 32 bits, with labels indicating the bit ranges: "Bit 31", "Bit 15", "Bit 11", and "Bit 0".
The 32 bits are segmented as follows:
1. **Bits 31 to 16**: This section is labeled "L2-LO Mapping Index" and is specified as "(16 bits)".
2. **Bits 15 to 12**: This section is labeled "Reserved" and is specified as "(4 bits)".
3. **Bits 11 to 0**: This section is labeled "L2 Path id" and is specified as "(12 bits)".
The diagram uses blue lines to outline the sections and blue text for the bit labels. The labels within the sections ("L2-LO Mapping Index", "Reserved", "L2 Path id") are in red text, and the bit counts are in black text.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m24dng\_5G\_L2\_Entity\_Level\_file\_11804.001.png[/image\_path][/image-0]

[image-1][image\_desc]The image displays a diagram illustrating the structure of a 12-bit "L2 Path id". The diagram is a horizontal bar divided into several segments, each representing a specific field within the 12-bit identifier. Bit positions are indicated above the bar, ranging from Bit 11 on the left to Bit 0 on the right.
The fields are as follows:
\* **Bit 11:** Labeled "Discriminator (1 bit)".
\* **Bits 10-9:** Labeled "Instance ID (2 bits)".
\* **Bit 8:** Labeled "Non-zero bit (1 bit)".
\* **Bits 7-5:** Labeled "Board slot id (3 bits)".
\* **Bits 4-0:** Labeled "Table Index (5 bits)".
The text "L2 Path id (12 bits)" is prominently displayed at the top of the image.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m24dng\_5G\_L2\_Entity\_Level\_file\_11804.002.png[/image\_path][/image-1]

The TEID format is used for the Xg-U interface (GTP-U tunnel between RLC''(L2-Hi) located in primary gNB and RLC'(L2-Lo) located in external gNB)

L2-LO Mapping Index:

* Mapping index is a 16-bit identifier which is used to identify the bearer. It is internal to 5G-L2-LO and is not used by TRSW.

Non-zero bit:

* This bit is used to identify if the TEID belongs to 5G or LTE. Bit 8 is always set to '1' for 5G and '0' for LTE.

L2 Path Id:

* TRSW uses L2 path id to retrieve "Local Queue id" from stored TEID mapping table to route the GTP-U message.
* L2 path id should be unique within AMIA half-rack, ASOD or VM, hence Board Slot id is added along with Table Index to generate a unique L2 Path Id.
* L2 Path Id should be unique within a Snowfish, hence Instance Id is added along with the Table Index to generate a unique L2 Path Id.
* L2 Path id format is internal to 5G-L2-LO and is not known by TRSW.

BoardSlot Id:

* It represents the board location (slot No) in airscale  is (0~7)

[Before PR656767]

* L2-LO shall set it to '0' and is ignored by OAM/TRS.

[end PR656767]

Table Index:

* Table index is a 5-bit unique identifier which is used to identify the 32-bit 5G-L2-LO local queue id within the TEID mapping table.

Instance id:

* On a Snowfish processor it represents the L2-LO instance id , provided in AddressDistributionReq

Discriminator:

* This bit is used to identify if the TEID belongs to 5G-L2-HI (0) or 5G-L2-LO (1).

---

### 3.3.3.2 GTP-U Error Indication Message

#### 3.3.3.2.0-1 GTP-U Error Indication Message Creation of GTP-U Error Indication Message (ID: 11215887)

**3.3.3.2.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11215901`)

GTP-U Error Indication Message
GTP-U Error Indication Message shall contain:

GTP-U Header (Refer 3GPP 29281 chapter 5.1).

Header fields shall be set as :

* E = 1 (Next Extension Header Present Bit)
* S = 1 (Sequence Number Present Bit)
* Message Type = 26,
* Information Elements in an Error Indication (Refer 3GPP 29281, chapter 7.3.1) :
* The "Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I" IE shall be set to TEID received in the incoming G-PDU.
* The "GTP-U Peer Address" IE shall be set to destination IP address fetched from the incoming IP packet containing the G-PDU.
* The “Private Extension” IE shall not be included.
* Length = Length of payload.
* Tunnel Endpoint Identifier shall be set to 0
* „Next Extension Header Type”  Set to 0x40 (UDP Port extension header)
* The message shall include "UDP port".
* UDP port shall be filled from the UDP source port of the incoming IP packet containing the G-PDU.

TrswHeader of the GTP-U Error Indication message shall be filled with:

* source IP address equal to destination IP address fetched from the incoming IP of the G-PDU packet.
* destination IP address equal to source IP address fetched from the incoming IP of the G-PDU packet.
* DSCP  = [Before CB008140-L] 46 (default) [CB008140-L] gtpuManagementDscp in drbAddReqLo  (Ref. 5G\_L2\_IF\_2544\_replaced([10983749](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EFfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))) recevied during Bearer Setup [End CB008140-L]

---

#### 3.3.3.2.0-2 GTP-U Error Indication Message Reception of GTP-U Error Indication Message (ID: 11215907)

**3.3.3.2.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11215914`)

GTP-U Error Indication Message
Upon reception of the GTP-U Error Indication message from TRSW (Refer 5G\_L1L2\_FLOW\_1892\_replaced([11200598](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BgNJUfvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) on defaultEMQueueId (ref. 5G\_L2\_IF\_739\_replaced([10983093](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V2LlPu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))), 5G-L2-LO shall :

* find the Bearer Context associated with the “Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I" and "GTP-U Peer Address" from the received GTP-U Error Indication Message (Refer 5G\_L2\_9264\_replaced([11215887](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-60afvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))
* build LoUser\_BearerErrorInd (Refer 5G\_L2\_IF\_3163\_replaced([10984298](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V_Vgfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))) with values obtained from Bearer Context and bearerErrorCause = EBearerErrorCause\_XgGtpError
* send the constructed LoUser\_BearerErrorInd to the 5G-CP-RT using loUserCellClientAddress in LoCnfg\_AddressDistributionReq.
* Stop sending DDDSes for the bearer

---
