# 3.5 DL Data Path

## 3.5.0-1 DL Data Path FA: L2-LO Document Owner: James 3. Zhang (NSB)/Qing Zheng (NSB); Andrzej Cholewinski (Nokia) (ID: 11216158)

## 3.5.1 RLC PDU data reception

### 3.5.1.0-1 RLC PDU data reception 5G-L2-LO shall update  DL RLC data PDU volume discarded counters due to full buffer (ID: 11216170)

**3.5.1.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11216176`)

RLC PDU data reception
5G-L2-LO shall increment the counter M55310C08001…M55310C08020 (DL\_RLC\_PDU\_D\_FBF\_L\_QOS\_GRP\_1…DL\_RLC\_PDU\_D\_FBF\_L\_QOS\_GRP\_20) by one for each discarded DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment for the given QoS Group

5G-L2-LO shall increment the counter M55310C15003 (DL\_RLC\_VOL\_D\_FBF\_L\_SRB\_3) for each discarded DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment for logical channel ID set to 3 with the number of bytes for that DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment.

[5GC000752-F]

5G-L2-LO shall increment the counter:

M55310C15001 (DL\_RLC\_VOL\_D\_FBF\_L\_SRB\_1) DL RLC data PDU volume discarded by RLC due to full buffer - SRB1 for each discarded DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment for logical channel ID set to 1 (see 5G\_L2\_IF\_3515\_replaced([10983734](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EEvu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))) with the number of bytes for that DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment.

M55310C15002 (DL\_RLC\_VOL\_D\_FBF\_L\_SRB\_2) DL RLC data PDU volume discarded by RLC due to full buffer – SRB2 for each discarded DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment for logical channel ID set to 2 (see 5G\_L2\_IF\_3515\_replaced([10983734](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EEvu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))) with the number of bytes for that DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment.

[End 5GC000752-F]

5G-L2-LO shall increment the counter M55310C16003 (DL\_RLC\_PDU\_D\_FBF\_L\_SRB\_3) by one with each discarded DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment for logical channel ID set to 3.

[5GC000752-F]

5G-L2-LO shall increment the counter:

M55310C16001 (DL\_RLC\_PDU\_D\_FBF\_L\_SRB1) DL RLC data PDU volume discarded by RLC due to full buffer - SRB1 by one with each discarded DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment for logical channel ID set to 1 (see 5G\_L2\_IF\_3515\_replaced([10983734](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EEvu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

M55310C16002 (DL\_RLC\_PDU\_D\_FBF\_L\_SRB2) DL RLC data PDU volume discarded by RLC due to full buffer – SRB2 by one with each discarded DL RLC Data PDU/PDU segment for logical channel ID set to 2 (see 5G\_L2\_IF\_3515\_replaced([10983734](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EEvu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

[End 5GC000752-F]

Note: L2-LO Spec alignment with 19A code (DOORS session ID 24935)

---

### 3.5.1.0-2 RLC PDU data reception 5G-L2-LO receives UMD RLC PDUs from 5G-L2-HI (ID: 11216184)

**3.5.1.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11216190`)

RLC PDU data reception
5G-L2-LO shall maintain a buffer for RLC PDUs per radio bearer. Data shall be stored into queues in the same order as they are received from 5G-L2-HI (i.e., they shall be accessed in FIFO manner).

1. When 5G-L2-LO receives RLC PDU(s) it shall identify the corresponding user and radio bearer based on LoDataUeID and logicalChannelIdentity IEs.

[5GC000795-B]

5G-L2-LO shall drop any RLC PDU(s) for unknown radio bearers.

Note: Bearer deletions in 5G-L2-LO are not synchronized in time with bearer deletions in 5G-L2-HI. 5G-L2-HI might still send RLC PDU(s) for radio bearers which have already been deleted in 5G-L2-LO but not yet in 5G-L2-HI.

[End 5GC000795-B]

1. 5G-L2-LO shall store the data into corresponding RLC PDU buffer. The buffer shall be accessed in FIFO manner. For description of interface LoData see 5G\_RAN\_UP\_9064.

RLC PDUs have RLC header D/C bit set properly.

1. 5G-L2-LO shall consider to send a DL Buffer Status Report to 5G-L2-PS as described in 5G\_L2\_1953\_replaced([11217172](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_CwNvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

The length of the PDU queue shall provide sufficient space for buffering of a certain number of RLC Data PDUs.

[5GC000795-B]

Upon reception of a LoUser\_BearerDeleteReq, 5G-L2-LO shall delete all pending RLC PDU(s) in the deleted bearers' queues.

[End 5GC000795-B]

Exceptions:

Exc.2a. If RLC PDU buffer is full, then incoming data shall be discarded. 5G-L2-LO shall write a log note about the issue.

---

### 3.5.1.0-3 RLC PDU data reception 5G-L2-LO receives AMD RLC PDUs from 5G-L2-HI (ID: 11216196)

**3.5.1.0-3.0-2**  (ID: `12811683`)

RLC PDU data reception
5G-L2-LO shall maintain three buffers for RLC PDUs per radio bearer for prioritizing purposes:

* First shall be for the RLC control PDUs called Control PDUs Buffer.
* Second is for prioritized retransmission called prioritized retransmission PDUs buffer.
* Third for other the RLC data PDUs called data PDUs buffer. The data PDU buffer shall contain both initial transmissions and retransmissions. Data shall be stored into buffer in the same order as they are received from 5G-L2-HI (I.e. they shall be accessed in FIFO manner).

When **5G-L2-LO receives [Before CB015504-C] LoData\_DlRlcPduSendReq, [CB015504-C]RLC PDU(s): [End CB015504-C]**

 If  [CB015504-C]RLC PDU’s is received by LoData\_DlDrbRlcPduSendReq with [End CB015504-C] “*isUlGrantNeededForRlcStatusPdu” = True, 5G-L2-LO shall send LoCtrl\_UlMacPduReceiveInd (see [10984697](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WCY0Pu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) to L2 PS with isUlGrantNeededForRlcStatusPdu set to TRUE for this UE[CNI-136896-I](Note: By PR427772, L2-LO bundles the UEs need UL grant within one slot before sending report to L2-PS to reduce performance impact. This process is independent to LoCtrl_UlMacPduReceiveInd sending when reception UL TB from L1).[End CNI-136896-I] This indicates that the UE needs to be scheduled in UL such that RLC status PDU can be send.*

 In case when sizeOfRlcData is NOT equal to 0, continue with the below steps:

1. When 5G-L2-LO receives RLC PDU(s) it shall identify the corresponding user and radio bearer based on LoDataUeID and logicalChannelIdentity IEs.

5G-L2-LO shall ignore any RLC PDU(s) for unknown radio bearers.

*Note: Bearer deletions in 5G-L2-LO are not synchronized in time with bearer deletions in 5G-L2-HI. 5G-L2-HI might still send RLC PDU(s) for radio bearers which have already been deleted in 5G-L2-LO but not yet in 5G-L2-HI.*

1. RLC PDU’s received by LoData\_DlRlcStatusPduSendReq are added for the Control PDUs Buffer.
2. For RLC PDU’s received with txType = reTx, the RLC PDU's are added to the tail of prioritized retransmission PDUs buffer**.**
3. All Other RLC PDU’s received by [Before CB015504-C] LoData\_DlRlcPduSendReq [CB015504-C] LoData\_DlSrbRlcPduSendReq ([12805843](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/TX_tKaRwZ-EEfCkxIKMlo4L6w)) or LoData\_DlDrbRlcPduSendReq ([12805904](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/TX_CSqZtZ-MEfCkxIKMlo4L6w)) [End CB015504-C] are added to the tail of data PDUs buffer.
4. 5G-L2-LO shall consider to send a DL Buffer Status Report to 5G-L2-PS as described in [11217172](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_CwNvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ).

The length of the data PDU queue shall provide sufficient space for the buffering of at least 1 radio frame worth of RLC Data PDUs.

The queue of the Control PDUs shall be able to store one RLC STATUS PDU. If the queue already contains one Control PDU and new one has arrived, then the old one shall be discarded.

Upon reception of a LoUser\_BearerDeleteReq, 5G-L2-LO shall delete all pending RLC PDU(s) in the deleted bearers' queues.

Exceptions:

Exc.3a, 4a. If RLC PDU buffer is full then incoming data shall be discarded. 5G-L2-LO shall write a log note about the issue.

---

## 3.5.2 Handling RLC PDUs for MAC PDU

### 3.5.2.0-1 Handling RLC PDUs for MAC PDU 5G-L2-LO shall maintain RLC transmission state variable for RLC UM bearers (ID: 11216215)

**3.5.2.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11216227`)

Handling RLC PDUs for MAC PDU
The initial value of RLC transmission state variable TX\_NEXT shall be set to 0 at bearer setup.

When RLC UMD PDU is segmented,

1) 5G-L2-LO shall set the SN for the first segment based on TX\_NEXT.

2) 5G-L2-LO shall set the SN for the rest of the segments based on the SN assigned to the first segment.

3) 5G-L2-LO shall increment TX\_NEXT after sending the last segment.

[CB006112-A]

gNB support 6 bits SN for RLC UMD PDU:

1. UMD PDU with segmentation or resegmentation with 6 bits SN without SO – gNB shall not include “SO” filed for the first segment.

2. UMD PDU with segmentation or resegmentation with 6 bits SN with SO – gNB shall include “SO” filed for all segmentation except first segment

[End CB006112-A]

---

### 3.5.2.0-2 Handling RLC PDUs for MAC PDU 5G-L2-LO shall calculate the queueing delay for the RLC PDU (ID: 11216234)

**3.5.2.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11216240`)

Handling RLC PDUs for MAC PDU
5G-L2-LO shall calculate the queueing delay for the RLC PDU

[5GC000786-A] For the DRB bearers with flowControlActive set to TRUE,[End 5GC000786-A]

5G-L2-LO shall calculate the queueing delay for RLC PDU(l2loQueueingDelayRlcPdu) based current RLC buffer size at L2-LO and estimated throughput.

* l2loQueueingDelayRlcPdu = current RLC buffer size at L2-LO/ estimated throughput.
* for Max value for l2loQueueingDelayRlcPdu refer to 5G\_L2\_IF\_2375\_replaced([10986071](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WMw4Pu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))

current RLC buffer size at L2-LO shall consider all RLC Data PDU's including RLC Data PDU's for retransmission.

estimated throughput received from 5G-L2-PS in LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq.

[Before 5GC000795-B] IF "estimated throughput" is not received from 5G-L2-PS or "estimated throughput" is 0, "estimated throughput" shall be set based on 'Minimum throughput for flow control' received in LoUser\_UserSetupReq.

[5GC000795-B] IF "estimated throughput" is not received from 5G-L2-PS or "estimated throughput" is 0, "estimated throughput" shall be set based on 'Minimum throughput for flow control' received in LoUser\_UserSetupReq or in LoUser\_BearerSetupReq.

[End 5GC000795-B]

Note: L2-LO Spec alignment with 19A code (DOORS session ID 24935)

---

### 3.5.2.1 Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO

#### 3.5.2.1.0-1 Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO Transport block construction (ID: 11216252)

**3.5.2.1.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11216258`)

Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO
For transport block construction, 5G-L2-LO shall collect data from the RLC PDU buffer in below priority order.

1) RLC Control PDUs from Control PDUs Buffer.

2) RLC Data PDUs from prioritized retransmission PDUs buffer.

3) RLC Data PDUs from data PDUs buffer

The PDUs in a queue shall be accessed in a FIFO manner.

When 5G-L2-LO shall select/generate a 5G-MAC SDU for a certain logical channel, then 5G-L2-LO shall select this RLC PDU which has the highest priority (considering the prioritization rules above) and which is not larger than or can be segmented to the required RLC PDU size.

5G-L2-LO shall perform segmentation only for AMD and UMD PDUs. With segmentation of a PDU, the 5G-L2-LO shall update the RLC header of the first segment and shall create an RLC header for the second segment.

With segmentation of the UMD PDU, 5G-L2-LO shall assign SN as defined in 5G\_L2\_1942\_replaced([11216215](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-8pnvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

If a RLC control PDU does not fit into the requested size, then that PDU shall be skipped, i.e. RLC control PDUs shall not be segmented (there is no segment format for them).

5G-L2-LO shall write a log note about too big control PDU.The control PDU shall be tried to be added in the next transport block construction request

When 5G-L2-LO performs RLC segmentation for AMD PDU and poll bit is set in the RLC PDU from 5G-L2-HI, 5G-L2-LO shall set the poll bit only for the last segment of that RLC PDU. For other segments of the RLC PDU it shall be cleared.

Rationale: Poll -flag is set to last fragment so that if that is the last piece of data, it would be included in the status report. Setting it in the first fragment would leave last segments out of the status report and that generates unnecessary error actions (sender would need to repeat poll triggered by t-PollRetransmit). Setting flag to all segments would cause unnecessary status report.

If 5G-L2-LO was able to forward the complete RLC PDU to MAC layer,corresponding data shall be removed from the RLC PDU buffer.

If 5G-L2-LO did segmentation for a RLC PDU, then remaining part of the PDU shall be kept in the RLC PDU buffer until the last segment of it gets included into a transport block.

RLC TM Data PDUs (e.g. xCCCH data) shall be passed through the RLC in 5G-L2-LO unmodified. Note, xCCCH data (SRB0) reception is described in 5G\_L2\_9993\_replaced([11216009](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-7bfPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and xCCCH data is addressed by Logical Channel Identity 0.

Note: L2-LO Spec alignment with 19A code (DOORS session ID 24935)

---

#### 3.5.2.1.0-2 Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO DL RLC PDU volume counters update (ID: 11216265)

**3.5.2.1.0-2.0-4**  (ID: `11216292`)

Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO
When an RLC Data PDU/PDU segment received from L2-HI is selected to be multiplexed in MAC PDU for:

-  logical channel ID set to 1, counter:

M55310C09001 (DL\_RLC\_VOL\_TX\_L\_SRB1) DL RLC data PDU volume transmitted by RLC - SRB1

is incremented by the number of bytes of transmitted DL RLC Data PDU;

* logical channel ID set to 2, counter:

M55310C09002 (DL\_RLC\_VOL\_TX\_L\_SRB2) DL RLC data PDU volume transmitted by RLC – SRB2

is incremented by the number of bytes of transmitted DL RLC Data PDU;

* logical channel ID set to 3, counter M55310C09003 (DL\_RLC\_VOL\_TX\_L\_SRB\_3) is incremented by the number of PDU data bytes.
* logical channelId = 4 ... 32 - DRB, following CA counters shall be incremented by the number of bytes of transmitted DL RLC Data PDU (See Note 2):

M55310C20000 (NR\_RLC\_PDU\_DL\_VOL\_CA\_SCELL), when the DL RLC data is transmitted for the UEs that use this cell as SCELL (for all CA types), for both FR1 and FR2

M55310C20001 (NR\_RLC\_PDU\_DL\_VOL\_CA\_PCELL), when the DL RLC data is transmitted for the UEs that use this cell as P-Cell (for all CA types), for both FR1 and FR2

M55310C01021 (IGNB\_PDU\_DL\_VOL\_CA\_SCELL), when the DL RLC data is transmitted for the UEs that use this cell as S-Cell while P-Cell is on different gNB (IGNB-CA)

M55310C01022 (IGNB\_PDU\_DL\_VOL\_CA\_PCELL), when the DL RLC data is transmitted for the UEs that use this cell as PCell while the SCell is on different gNB (IGNB-CA)

[CB010636-A]

Following CA counters shall be incremented by the number of bytes of initially transmitted DL RLC Data PDU  for SA DRBs (see Note 2, 3):

M55310C02021 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_NON\_CA\_SA) for both FR1 and FR2 when the DL RLC data is transmitted through the DRBs in the Cell for UEs that doesn’t have SCell(s) configured.  This counter is also updated in FR1 for non CA Eligible DRBs of CA configured UEs (see Note 4).

M55310C02022 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_PRI\_SA\_CA) for both FR1 and FR2 at PCELL when the DL RLC data is transmitted for the UEs through the Cell which is acting as P-Cell that have SCell(s) configured, for all SA CA types, both intra-gNB and inter-gNB.

M55310C02024 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_SCELL\_SA\_CA) For for both FR1 and FR2 at SCell, providing the DL data volume at SA SCell for the UEs that use this cell as SCell for both intra-gNB and inter-gNB SA CA type.

M55310C02023 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_SEC\_SA\_CA\_FR2) at PCell in FR2 for UEs that the cell is acting as SA PCell and have SCell(s) configured, providing number of data bytes transmitted for the UE through all the SCells for all FR2 SA CA type.

Following CA counters shall be incremented by the number of bytes of initially transmitted DL RLC Data PDU for NSA DRBs  (see Note 2,3):

M55310C02025 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_NON\_CA\_NSA ) for both FR1 and FR2 when the DL RLC data is transmitted through the DRBs in the cell for UEs that doesn’t have SCell(s) configured.  This counter is also updated in FR1 for non CA Eligible DRBs of CA configured UEs (see Note 4).

M55310C02026 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_PRI\_NSA\_CA) for both FR1 and FR2 when the DL RLC data is transmitted for the UEs through the DRBs in the Cell, which is acting as P-Cell that have SCell(s) configured for all SA CA type, both intra-gNB and inter-gNB.

M55310C02028 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_SCELL\_NSA\_CA) For for both FR1 and FR2 at S-Cell, providing the DL data volume at NSA SCell for the UEs that use this cell as Scell for both intra-gNB and inter-gNB NSA CA type.

M55310C02027 (RLC\_PDU\_VOL\_TX\_SEC\_NSA\_CA\_FR2) at PCell in FR2 for UEs that the cell is acting as NSA PCell and have SCell(s) configured, providing number of data bytes transmitted for the UE through all the SCells for all FR2 NSA CA type.

[End CB010636-A]

Note 1: For all counters listed above, while forming the MAC PDU, the whole RLC Data PDU is taken into account including the header of every segment.

Note 2: For FR1 counters on P-Cell, 5G-L2-LO checked ueCaType received in LoUser\_CarrierAggInfoRep [Ref. 5G\_L2\_IF\_4584\_replaced([10984349](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V_Vnvu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))] to find which type of CA (intra or interGnb) is used by the UE. For counters on S-Cell, 5G-L2-LO checks ueAddCause==SCELLADDITION in LoUser\_UserSetupReq and loUser\_UserSetupReq.drbAddReqLo.dataPathId==local/remoteLoDataEndpoint for the bearer to determine which type of CA (intra or interGnb) is in use.

[CB010636-A]

Note 3: For SA/NSA information 5G-L2-LO shall check value of the the drbAddReqLo.typeOfBearer for the Bearer(s) provided during User/BearerSetupReq.

Note 4: 5G-L2-LO shall check value of the the drbAddReqLo.isDlCaEligible flag for the Bearer(s) provided during User/BearerSetupReq

[End CB010636-A]

For FR2, the PCELL counters shall be updated for the cell where the UeContext is created and has SCELL(s) [Before CB010636-A] activated [CB010636-A] configured [Before PR766947, PR767004](drbAddReqLo.isDlCaEligible = TRUE)[PR766947, PR767004](ueCaFr2Configured = dLCA or uLdLCA flag in LoUser_CarrierAggInfoRep for SA call or in LoUser_UserSetupReq for NSA)[End PR766947, PR767004][End CB010636-A]. The SCELL counters shall be updated for all other cells in the same NRCELLGRP as PCELL where the UE DL RLC data is transmitted.

When an RLC Data PDU/PDU segment received from L2-HI is selected to be multiplexed in MAC PDU for:

* logical channel ID set to 1, counter:

M55310C10001 (DL\_RLC\_PDU\_TX\_L\_SRB1) DL RLC data PDUs transmitted by RLC - SRB1

is incremented by one;

* logical channel ID set to 2, counter:

M55310C10002 (DL\_RLC\_PDU\_TX\_L\_SRB2) DL RLC data PDUs transmitted by RLC – SRB2

is incremented by one;

* logical channel ID set to 3, counter M55310C10003 (DL\_RLC\_PDU\_TX\_L\_SRB\_3) is incremented by one.

Note: For all counters listed above, each RLC Data PDU/PDU segment received from 5G-L2-HI is counted only once even if re-segmented by MAC PDU builder.

---

#### 3.5.2.1.0-3 Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO RLC PDU counters for PMQAP Profiles (ID: 11216298)

**3.5.2.1.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11216304`)

Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO
5G-L2-LO shall maintain PMQAP level counters for each configured NRPMQAP profile for configured Data Radio Bearer (DRB).

List of configured PMQAP profiles for the DRB shall be obtained from LoUser\_UserSetupReq.drbAddReqLo/LoUser\_BearerSetupReq.drbAddReqLo (5G\_L2\_IF\_2544\_replaced([10983749](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EFfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

Small volume and short session bursts as configured in volThresDiscardDlMacSdu and durationThresDiscardDlMacSdu for the DRB (5G\_L2\_IF\_2544\_replaced([10983749](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EFfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))) are excluded from the counting.

When an RLC Data PDU/PDU segment received from L2-HI is selected to be multiplexed in MAC PDU, following PMQAP level counters shall be incremented when flag LoCell\_CellReconfigurationReq/LoCell\_CellSetupReq.actNrPmqapProfiles = True (5G\_L2\_IF\_3361\_replaced([10983526](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V5O6_u6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))/5G\_L2\_IF\_771\_replaced([10983303](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V3Zv_u6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ))):

DL\_RLC\_VOL\_UE\_TPUT\_PMQAP\_FR2 (M55373C00001) for all FR2 SA CA types and both SA and NSA bearers by the number of initially transmitted MAC SDU volume (ThpVolDl) during a sample of time (ThpTimeDl) excluding the data transmitted in the slot when the buffer is emptied (see Notes below).

Note:

1. A sample of the ThpVolDl is the data volume counted on RLC PDU (MAC SDU) level in bits transmitted for one data radio bearer (DRB) during a sample of  the ThpTimeDl in usec (see 5G\_L2\_12237\_replaced([11217229](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_CwP_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). This counter shall be updated with one sample of the ThpVolDl accumulated each time the DL buffer for one DRB is emptied.
2. For CA UEs burst length refers to the time when there is data in the buffer in any of the PCells or SCells.
3. HARQ retransmission volume shall not be counted in this measurement.

DL\_RLC\_TIME\_UE\_TPUT\_PMQAP\_FR2 (M55373C00002) for all FR2 SA CA types and both SA and NSA bearers, by the number of time samples (ThpTimeDl) in usec, when there is data in the buffer in Pcell or any of the SCells, excluding the time spend on data transmission in the slot when the buffer is emptied (see Notes below).

Note:

1. A sample of the ThpTimeDl shall be taken each time the DL burst for one data radio bearer (DRB) is emptied (see 5G\_L2\_12237\_replaced([11217229](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_CwP_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))
2. HARQ retransmissions happening after the end of the burst aren't considered.
3. This counter shall not updated in a cell when it is serving as an SCell.

---

#### 3.5.2.1.0-4 Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO DL RLC Data Delay Counters (ID: 11216309)

**3.5.2.1.0-4.0-1**  (ID: `11216317`)

Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO
DL RLC SRB Data Delay Counters

---

**3.5.2.1.0-4.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11216324`)

Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO
5G-L2-LO shall increment the following counters to record the delay in handling DL RLC PDUs within gNB DU:

[5GC000752-F]

M55310C13001 (DL\_RLC\_DELAY\_L\_SRB1) DL RLC data PDUs transmitted by RLC - SRB1

* updated by the sum of all individual delays calculated per each DL RLC PDU in gNB-DU for the SRB1.

The individual delay is calculated as the time difference between "the reception of the RLC SDU in gNB-DU from PDCP layer" and "the sending (first segment of) RLC SDU over the air interface for the first time". The end point corresponds to the start of the air interface slot when the MAC PDU including the (first segment of) RLC SDU is sent. Any additional delay from possible HARQ reTx or RLC reTx is not included.

Note: average delay can be obtained using PDU amount counter M55310C18001;

M55310C18001 (DL\_RLC\_INI\_PDU\_TX\_L\_SRB\_1) DL RLC data IniTx PDUs transmitted by Low RLC - SRB1

-  updated when RLC PDU (or first segment of RLC PDU) for initial RLC Tx is multiplexed into a TB.

Note: RLC PDU segmented by low RLC is counted only once.

M55310C13002 (DL\_RLC\_DELAY\_L\_SRB2) DL RLC data PDUs transmitted by RLC – SRB2

* updated by the sum of all individual delays calculated per each DL RLC PDU in gNB-DU for the SRB2.

The individual delay is calculated as the time difference between "the reception of the RLC SDU in gNB-DU from PDCP layer" and "the sending (first segment of) RLC SDU over the air interface for the first time". The end point corresponds to the start of the air interface slot when the MAC PDU including the (first segment of) RLC SDU is sent. Any additional delay from possible HARQ reTx or RLC reTx is not included.

Note: average delay can be obtained using PDU amount counter M55310C18002;

M55310C18002 (DL\_RLC\_INI\_PDU\_TX\_L\_SRB\_2) DL RLC data IniTx PDUs transmitted by Low RLC – SRB2

-  updated when RLC PDU (or first segment of RLC PDU) for initial RLC Tx is multiplexed into a TB.

Note: RLC PDU segmented by low RLC is counted only once.

[End 5GC000752-F]

M55310C13003 (DL\_RLC\_DELAY\_L\_SRB\_3) - sum of time (in us) taken for first DL RLC PDU/PDU segment to be multiplexed into a MAC TB for logical channel ID set to 3 from the time it is received from PDCP including the time consumed while waiting in the FIFO

M55310C18003 (DL\_RLC\_INI\_PDU\_TX\_L\_SRB\_3) - number of DL RLC PDUs transmitted by Low RLC as initial RLC Tx for the SRB3. The counter shall be update only once when RLC PDU (or first segment of RLC PDU) for initial RLC Tx is multiplexed into a TB.

To achieve this, the 5G-L2-HI would associate a time stamp to an RLC PDU and include this information while delivering this to the 5G-L2-LO. The 5G-L2-LO shall then use this information to create the delta time when it would multiplex this RLC PDU (or first RLC PDU segment) into a TB for the first time.

---

**3.5.2.1.0-4.0-2**  (ID: `11216329`)

Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO
DL RLC DRB Data Delay Counters

---

**3.5.2.1.0-4.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11216335`)

Generation of 5G-MAC SDUs in RLC 5G-L2-LO
5G-L2-LO shall increment the following counters to record the delay in handling DL RLC Data delay in gNB-DU of the given QoS Group.

The QoS Group is defined when the DRB established, refer to 5G\_L2\_IF\_2544\_replaced([10983749](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V7EFfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) drbAddReqLo Structure Content.

M55310C05001 ~ M55310C05020 (DL RLC delay - QoS Group 01 ~ 20) DL RLC DRB data PDUs of the given QoS Group transmitted by RLC.

* updated by the sum of all individual delays calculated per each DL RLC DRB PDU in gNB-DU of the given QoS Group.

The individual delay is calculated as the time difference between "the reception of the RLC SDU in gNB-DU from PDCP layer" and "the sending (first segment of) RLC SDU over the air interface for the first time". The end point corresponds to the start of the air interface slot when the MAC PDU including the (first segment of) RLC SDU is sent. Any additional delay from possible HARQ reTx or RLC reTx is not included.

Note: Each average delay of the given QoS Group can be obtained using DRB PDU amount counter of the given QoS Group (M55310C17001 ~ M55310C17020);

M55310C17001 ~ M55310C17020 (DL RLC data PDUs transmitted by Low RLC - QoS Group 01 ~ 20) DL RLC DRB data of the given QoS Group IniTx PDUs transmitted by Low RLC

-  updated when RLC DRB PDU (or first segment of RLC PDU) for initial RLC Tx is multiplexed into a TB.

Note: RLC DRB PDU segmented by low RLC is counted only once.

---

## 3.5.3 GTP-U PDU Reception

### 3.5.3.1 DU DL User Data reception from TRSW

#### 3.5.3.1.0-1 DU DL User Data reception from TRSW Receiving the DU DL User Data from TrswData interface (ID: 11216356)

**3.5.3.1.0-1.0-4**  (ID: `12813362`)

DU DL User Data reception from TRSW
Upon receiving the **GTP-U G-PDU with DU DL User Data from TrswData interface ([11376719](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ueSnZ_vkEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)),  5G-L2-LO shall:**

* extract the TEID from the TRSW header (Refer TT\_L4.1537) of incoming GTP-U G-PDU message.
* validate received TEID according to the [11216423](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ewfvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ).
* get the RLC PDU from the GTP-U payload.
* use the GTP-U TEID  to fetch the Bearer Context from the L2-LO Mapping Index.
* record received *NR-U Sequence Number of the received packet (Refer [10995309](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2XKaOPu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ) for the frame format) for creation of lost packet report in DDDS for the Bearer.*
* build [Before CB015504-C] LoData\_DlRlcPduSendReq [CB015504-C] LoData\_DlDrbRlcPduSendReq ([12805904](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/TX_CSqZtZ-MEfCkxIKMlo4L6w)) [End CB015504-C] from the RLC PDU and values provided in DU DL User Data **and use the message handler of** the L2LoDlReceiver for further processing.

In case item RLC SN Sub Range Index and/or L2Lo SN Index are transferred in DU DL USER DATA with dummy packet, 5G-L2-LO shall update RLC SN Sub Range Index and/or L2Lo SN Index parameters accordingly, and ignore the other parameters on the DU DL USER DATA message.

---

#### 3.5.3.1.0-2 DU DL User Data reception from TRSW Handling DU DL User Data with unknown TEID in GTP-U (ID: 11216377)

**3.5.3.1.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11216383`)

DU DL User Data reception from TRSW
Upon reception of the GTP-U GPDU-U with DU DL User Data from TrswData interface (5G\_UP\_1931\_replaced([11376719](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ueSnZ_vkEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) for which Bearer Context cannot be mapped with TEID, 5G-L2-LO shall:

* Build GTP-U Error Indication Message (Refer 5G\_L2\_9264\_replaced([11215887](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-60afvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))
* Send constructed GTP-U Error Indication (Refer 5G\_L1L2\_FLOW\_1888\_replaced([11194024](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Bfn6YvvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) through the TrswData interface (Refer 5G\_UP\_1931\_replaced([11376719](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ueSnZ_vkEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) using the TRSW Receiver EQID from LoCnfg\_AddressDistributionReq (Refer 5G\_L2\_IF\_738\_replaced([10983064](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2V1kj_u6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

---

### 3.5.3.2 TEID management

#### 3.5.3.2.0-1 TEID management TEID allocation (ID: 11216397)

**3.5.3.2.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11216403`)

TEID management
5G-L2-LO shall allocate new TEID in the format as defined in 5G\_L2\_6610\_replaced([11215858](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-60ZvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

5G-L2-LO shall maintain list of free "L2-LO Mapping Index" and when new TEID needs to be allocated, it shall choose the oldest "L2-LO Mapping Index" from this list (refer 5G\_L2\_6894\_replaced([11216410](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-93vvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

5G-L2-LO shall choose the local Queue Id for the GTP-U message for which new TEID needs to be allocated.

5G-L2-LO shall fetch the 5G-L2-LO path Id corresponding to the selected local Queue Id from the TEID  mapping table.

5G-L2-LO shall maintain mapping between the TEID and Bearer Context

---

#### 3.5.3.2.0-2 TEID management TEID releasing (ID: 11216410)

**3.5.3.2.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11216415`)

TEID management
5G-L2-LO shall update the list of free "L2-LO Mapping Index" with the released "L2-LO Mapping Index" on releasing the TEID.

5G-L2-LO shall release mapping between the " L2-LO Mapping Index" of the TEID and Bearer Context (DRB).

5G-L2-LO shall release mapping between the TEID and Bearer Context

When a Mapping Index is released, there could still be some data that is received for old bearer which was using this Mapping Index for the TEID. In such a case, allocating a just released Mapping Index to a new bearer could cause a mismatch with the data received.

When a new TEID needs to be allocated, the oldest Mapping Index shall be chosen from the list of free Mapping Index.

---

#### 3.5.3.2.0-3 TEID management TEID validation (ID: 11216423)

**3.5.3.2.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11216431`)

TEID management
Upon receiving of the GTP-U PDU 5G-L2-LO shall:

* Fetch Bearer mapped to the TEID.  Bearer Mapping is maintained as defined in the 5G\_L2\_6820\_replaced([11216390](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-93u_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
* If the Bearer is found, fetch the local IP address of the interface to which the TEID was allocated.
* If the local IP address is equal to the destination IP address of the GTP-U, consider TEID as valid.
* If above conditions are not met, consider TEID as invalid.

---

## 3.5.4 MAC PDU Generation

### 3.5.4.0-1 MAC PDU Generation Assembling of 5G-MAC PDU (ID: 11216443)

**3.5.4.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11216460`)

MAC PDU Generation
5G-L2-LO shall assemble a 5G-MAC PDU of length *tbSize bytes (5G\_L2\_IF\_3458\_replaced([10984546](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WBKufu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)))*

See size and content of 5G-MAC CEs in [11215683](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/TX_gOSnIPvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ).

See 5G\_L2\_9964\_replaced([11216252](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-9QpfvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for 5G-MAC SDU selection/generation in RLC part.

Assembling of 5G-MAC PDU shall follow 5G\_UP\_IF\_3085\_replaced([11526914](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_tVzFk_v1Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and sub-requirements.

**[CNI-59863]**

5G-L2-LO shall also follow the SDU number limitation rule when assembling the 5G-MAC PDUs  in 5G\_L2\_1963\_replaced([11216468](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ex_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

**[End CNI-59863]**

MAC PDU shall be assembled according to following sequence:

1. 5G-L2-LO shall generate MAC Control Elements to the beginning of MAC PDU. MAC CEs are requested by *LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq.*

MAC CE and the relevant MAC subheader is called a MAC sub-PDU. Fixed size MAC CEs shall use the R/R/LCID header and variable size MAC CEs shall use R/F/LCID/L header. MAC subheader and MAC CE shall be added in pairs, MAC CE follows the MAC subheader. 5G-L2-LO shall add MAC-sub-PDUs into MAC PDU as requested as long as there is free space in the transport block.

If transport block gets full before all requested MAC CEs are included, then 5G-L2-LO shall write a log note about the issue and continue to next step trying to fill the transport block as much as possible.

1. 5G-L2-LO shall add MAC SDUs into MAC PDU (after MAC CEs) from the logical channels requested by *LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq.*

MAC SDU and the relevant MAC subheader are called a MAC sub-PDU.  MAC subheader and MAC SDU shall be added in pairs, MAC SDU follows the MAC subheader. 5G-L2-LO shall add MAC-sub-PDUs into MAC PDU as requested as long as there is free space in the transport block **[CNI-59863] and the limitation of MAC SDU has not been reached as per 5G\_L2\_1963\_replaced([11216468](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ex_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))**[End CNI-59863].\*\*\*\*

Two sizes of MAC subheaders exist, where the difference is the size of *Length field. 5G-L2-LO shall select the smallest one that can indicate the length of corresponding MAC SDU.*

If transport block gets full before all requested MAC sub-PDUs are included, then 5G-L2-LO shall write a log note about the issue and discard the transport block.

5G-L2-LO shall ignore any request in *LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq for an unknown logical channel.*

*Note: Bearer deletions in 5G-L2-LO are not synchronized in time with bearer deletions in 5G-L2-PS. 5G-L2-PS might request to create a MAC sub-PDU for a logical channel which has already been deleted in 5G-L2-LO but not yet in 5G-L2-PS.*

1. 5G-L2-LO shall add padding into MAC PDU (after MAC SDUs) if the sum of MAC sub-PDUs is smaller than indicated *tbSize* *[CNI-59863]*or  the limitation of MAC SDU has been reached as per 5G\_L2\_1963\_replaced([11216468](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--ex_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) but the sum of MAC sub-PDUs is smaller than indicated *tbSize* *[End CNI-59863] .***\***\*

Padding MAC sub-PDU consists of R/R/LCID MAC subheader (LCID is set to 111111b) and zero or more padding bytes. I.e. padding header indicates that rest of the MAC PDU is padding.

If one byte padding is needed, padding MAC sub-PDU shall contain only padding subheader. With two or more padding bytes the padding sub-PDU shall contain padding subheader and one or more padding bytes. 5G-L2-LO may chose the value of padding bytes arbitrarily

---

### 3.5.4.0-2 MAC PDU Generation Load Control in MAC PDU assembling (ID: 11216468)

**3.5.4.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11216474`)

MAC PDU Generation
5G-L2-LO shall limit the MAC SDU handling number per slot and per UE based on the different configurations when assembling the MAC PDUs(see 5G\_L2\_1960\_replaced([11216443](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2--exPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 If scs received in LoCell\_CellSetupReq >= '120kHz', then rdMaxSdusPerSlotFR2(see 5G\_L2\_2104\_replaced([11220412](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_YHZ_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and  rdMaxSdusPerUeFR2(see 5G\_L2\_2106\_replaced([11220427](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_YHafvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) should be used for slot level and UE level threshold.

 If scs received in LoCell\_CellSetupReq < '120kHz', then rdMaxSdusPerSlotFR1(see 5G\_L2\_2100\_replaced([11220380](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_YHY_vTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and rdMaxSdusPerUeFR1(see 5G\_L2\_2102\_replaced([11220396](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_YHZfvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) should be used for slot level and UE level threshold.

For the retransmission request, CCCH request (for msg4) and MAC CE request, the number of MAC SDUs will be counted into MAC SDU handling numbers but not be limited by the slot level threshold and UE level threshold.

 Each retransmission request will be counted 1 SDU and accumulated into slot level SDU and UE level SDU handling numbers.

 Each MAC CE request (include CRI) will be counted 1 SDU and accumulated into slot level SDU and UE level SDU handling numbers.

 Each CCCH request (for msg4) will be counted 1 SDU and accumulated into slot level SDU and UE level SDU handling numbers.

For other data transmission request should comply with the slot level and UE level limitation. In case the threshold met, and still with free size of TBS are waiting for building SDU, padding bytes will be added into the transport block. In case there is only other data transmission request (not retransmission request and not CCCH request (for Msg4) and no MAC CE request ) for an UE but the slot level threshold is met , all padding byte will be added into the transport block for that UE.

 Each SDU will be counted as 1 SDU in cell level and accumulated into slot level SDU and UE level SDU handling numbers.

---

### 3.5.4.0-3 MAC PDU Generation Updating DL MAC counters up to 25R2 (ID: 11216481)

**3.5.4.0-3.0-3**  (ID: `12586935`)

MAC PDU Generation
[Before CNI-136855-B]

5G-L2-LO shall increment the following counters:

M55309C04001 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_VOL\_DCCH\_SRB1) DL MAC SDU volume transmitted on DCCH for SRB1

M55309C04002 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_VOL\_DCCH\_SRB2) DL MAC SDU volume transmitted on DCCH for SRB2

M55309C04003 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_VOL\_DCCH\_SRB3) DL MAC SDU volume transmitted on DCCH for SRB3

for each MAC SDU excluding the MAC sub headers, MAC CEs and padding while forming the MAC PDU for each new HARQ transmission, with the number of MAC SDU bytes for logical channel ID set accordingly to 1/2/3.

5G-L2-LO shall increment following counter

M55309C01001(DL\_MAC\_SDU\_VOL\_DTCH) DL MAC SDU volume transmitted on DTCH

for each MAC SDU excluding the MAC sub headers, MAC CEs and padding while forming the MAC PDU for each new HARQ transmission, with the number of MAC SDU bytes for any Logical Channel ID for DRBs.

5G-L2-LO shall increment the following counters:

M55309C08001 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_DCCH\_SRB1) DL MAC SDUs transmitted on DCCH for SRB1

M55309C08002 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_DCCH\_SRB2) DL MAC SDUs transmitted on DCCH for SRB2

M55309C08003 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_DCCH\_SRB3) DL MAC SDUs transmitted on DCCH for SRB3

by one for each MAC SDU excluding the MAC sub headers, MAC CEs and padding while forming the MAC PDU for each new HARQ transmission, for logical channel ID set accordingly to 1/2/3.

5G-L2-LO shall increment counter DL\_MAC\_SDU\_DTCH\_QOS\_GRP\_01...

DL\_MAC\_SDU\_DTCH\_QOS\_GRP\_20 by one for each MAC SDU excluding the

MAC sub headers, MAC CEs and padding while forming the MAC PDU for each new

HARQ transmission for the given Qos Group.

5G-L2-LO shall increment counter M55309C03001 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_VOL\_CCCH\_SRB0) by the number of selected/generated MAC SDU bytes (excluding those of MAC sub headers, MAC CEs and padding) while assembling a MAC PDU with a logical channel ID set to 0 for each new HARQ transmission

5G-L2-LO shall increment counter M55309C07001 (DL\_MAC\_SDU\_CCCH\_SRB0) by one for each selected/generated MAC SDU (excluding MAC sub headers, MAC CEs and padding) while assembling a MAC PDU with a logical channel ID set to 0 for each new HARQ transmission

5G-L2-LO shall increment counter

M55309C12001(MAC\_DTCH\_CELL\_THP\_DL\_MAX) MAX DL DTCH throughput in MAC layer

for each cell counting maximum number of MAC SDU bits on DTCH by first HARQ transmission for any Logical Channel ID in sampling time of 1 second. It shall exclude MAC sub headers, MAC CEs, padding and dummy bits.

[End CNI-136855-B]

---

### 3.5.4.0-4 MAC PDU Generation Assembling 5G-MAC PDU for artificial load (ID: 11216501)

**3.5.4.0-4.0-1**  (ID: `11216507`)

MAC PDU Generation
5G-L2-LO shall assemble a 5G-MAC PDU with dummy data if it receives LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq and the requestType in this message is 2, which indicates that this message is for a dummy TB request. For a dummy TB, there is no SRB or DRB related information. 5G-L2-PS needs to include all the parameters needed for TB build in LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq.

The contents of the dummy data are not specified. The length shall be tbsize indicated in LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq.

---

### 3.5.4.0-5 MAC PDU Generation Sending 5G-MAC PDU to 5G-L1-DL (ID: 11216513)

**3.5.4.0-5.0-4**  (ID: `12705631`)

MAC PDU Generation
5G-L2-LO shall send the 5G-MAC PDU to 5G-L1-DL via one or more **[Before CNI-136895-A] *DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq messages **[CNI-136895-A] messages as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A]and consider to send a DL Buffer Status Report to 5G-L2-PS as described in 5G\_L2\_1953\_replaced([11217172](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_CwNvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)). **[CB013338-CR-A, CB013338-SR-A] Before sending messages as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9),5G-L2-LO shall set timestamping according to [12705455: Downlink Message TX timestamping](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_XqVplGEdEfCLrcnPCspVyQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9).**[End CB013338-CR-A, CB013338-SR-A]******\****\*

For FR2, 5G-L2-LO need to delay the **[Before CNI-136895-A] *DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message**[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A] sending according to the L1 receiving window as in 5G\_L2\_353\_replaced([11151020](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_24gDUfvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).***\*\*\*\*

5G-L2-PS will indicate the SFN and slot that the data need to send to L1 in *LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq. 5G-L2-LO shall buffer the* *[Before CNI-136895-A]*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message **[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A] until the start of the indicated TTI. The start of TTI is defined by "5G-L2-LO BTU offset" as described in 5G\_L1L2\_FLOW\_672\_replaced([11177470](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BeTrwvvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).***\****\*

If the indicated SFN and slot to L1 is 0xFF, then 5G-L2-LO shall send **[Before CNI-136895-A]*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message **[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A]immediately.***\*\*\*\*

If the value of the IE "*secondPdschPayloadTbSendReqAddress" in the received msg* LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq as describled in 5G\_L2\_IF\_3458\_replaced([10984546](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WBKufu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)) is set, L2-LO shall also send the **[Before CNI-136895-A]*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq**[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A]to the 2nd C4 which address is indecated by *secondPdschPayloadTbSendReqAddress in* LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq, at the same time, the IE "*subcellId" in the* *[Before CNI-136895-A]*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq**[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A] to the 2nd C4 should use the "*secondSubcellId" in* LoCtrl\_PudMuxReq.******\*******\****\*\*\*\*

To fill the IEs "*secondPdschPayloadTbSendReqAddress" and "*secondSubCellId" in *LoCtrl\_PudMuxReq in L2-PS refers to 5G\_L2\_9830\_replaced([11155453](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_245E5fvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).*\*\*

For dummy TB assembly, 5G-L2-LO shall send 5G-MAC PDU to 5G-L1-DL. There is no need to send DL buffer status report to 5G-L2-PS. Some IEs in **[Before CNI-136895-A]DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq** [CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9) **[End CNI-136895-A]shall be set as given below:**\*\*\*\*

* tbIndex, tbFragmentOffset\_bits are fixed to 0.

The payload field of **[Before CNI-136895-A]*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq**[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A] is limited by maxPdschPayloadSize defined msg LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq refer to 5G\_L2\_IF\_3458\_replaced([10984546](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WBKufu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)), minus the size of SW event header (8 bytes) and minus the size of the other fields of the **[Before CNI-136895-A]\*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message**[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9) **[End CNI-136895-A]. If IE maxPdschPayloadSize of LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq is set to “JUMBO\_FRAME\_PAYLOAD\_SIZE\_9K” then size of** [Before CNI-136895-A]DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq**[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A] is limited to 9000Byte, if set to “JUMBO\_FRAME\_PAYLOAD\_SIZE\_64K” it is limited to 64000Byte.When the 64K buffer in EM Pool is exhausted, the next level buffer (9K) is used for segmentation.******\*******\****\*\*\*

Note, the BIP (BTS Intranet Protocol) specification can be found in <https://nokia.sharepoint.com/sites/btscommsarchandinterfaces/Controlled%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2Fsites%2Fbtscommsarchandinterfaces%2FControlled%20Documents%2FArchitecture%20specification>  SW event header is defined in WBTS\_ICOM\_72212.

If the 5G-MAC PDU doesn’t fit completely in the payload field then 5G-L2-LO shall divide the 5G-MAC PDU into segments of the max. possible size or less and send each of them with a single **[Before CNI-136895-A]*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message **[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A]. The first segment starts at the beginning of the 5G-MAC PDU.***\*\*\*\*

The size of 5G-MAC PDU segments shall be a multiple of 8 bytes, except for the last segment which can have any size (in bytes). This is needed to support the usage of HW accelerator DMA on Loki (ABIO board).

Within message **[Before CNI-136895-A]*DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq**[CNI-136895-A] message as described in [11512983: DlData\_PdschPayloadTbSendReq message](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FRteaPvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9)**[End CNI-136895-A] 5G-L2-LO shall set:***\*\*\*\*

* the IE *tbIndex to the value of IE* tbIndex received in *LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq,*\*\*
* the IE *tbFragmentSize to the payload size (in bits) and*
* the IE *tbFragmentOffset of the i-th segment/fragment to*
* the IE *tbStartOffset received in* LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq plus\*\*
* the sum of IEs *tbFragmentSize of the previous segments j < i (if any).*

See 5G\_L1\_5G21A\_79 for further information.

---

## 3.5.5 DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE

### 3.5.5.0-1 DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE Delay Critical GBR(DC-GBR) data's characteristics (ID: 11216549)

**3.5.5.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11216555`)

DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE
The definition of DC-GBR's characteristics: MDBV, GFBR, PER, RAN\_PDB, PDB, AW; see 5G\_UP\_13728\_replaced([11366306](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_udadrPvkEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

According to TS23.501 5.7.3.4 Packet Delay Budget(PDB):

The PER defines an upper bound for a rate of non-congestion related packet lossed.

For GBR QoS Flows with DC-GBR resource type, a packet which is delayed more than PDB is counted as lost, and included in the PER unless the data burst is exceeding the MDBV within the period of PDB or the QoS Flow is exceeding the GFBR.

---

### 3.5.5.0-2 DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE UM DL RLC SDU GFBR compliant, GFBR non-compliant status (ID: 11216559)

**3.5.5.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11216567`)

DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE
All DC-GBR's UM DL RLC SDUs will be treated either GFBR compliant or GFBR non-compliant based on the related LoCtrl\_PduMuxReq.isDeprioritizedSched. See 5G\_L2\_IF\_863\_replaced([10984505](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WAjrfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)). The GFBR compliant/non-compliant status checking is TBS level.

isGfbrCompliantSched = TRUE   // GFBR compliant

isGfbrCompliantSched = FALSE  // GFBR non-compliant

GFBR status Criterial:

If TBS level is GFBR compliant, all the MAC SDUs scheduled within this TBS shall be all GFBR compliant. vice versa.

If the UM DL RLC UM SDU been segmented, take the whole RLC SDU's status as GFBR non-compliant in case one of segments status is GFBR non-compliant.

---

### 3.5.5.0-3 DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE DL packet delay calculation (ID: 11216574)

**3.5.5.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11216577`)

DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE
There is a packet delay metric that used for calculating the DL packet delay.

5G-L2-LO shall calculated the packet delay per UM DL RLC SDU as bellow:

UmDlRlcSduPacketDelay = sum {

Delay occurred in L2HI-CU +

Delay occurred in F1-U +

Delay occurred in L2HI-DU +

Delay in L2Lo +

DL Air-interface delay }.

totalDelayInL2HiCuAndF1U = Delay occurred in L2HI-CU + Delay occurred in F1-U.

DL\_RLC\_SDU\_DLY = Delay occurred in L2Hi-DU + Delay occurred in L2Lo; See 5G\_L2\_16632\_replaced([11218626](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_L6KPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

DL\_RLC\_UM\_DLY\_AIR\_IF = DL Air-interface delay. See 5G\_L2\_18323\_replaced([11218571](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2_LTHfvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

Stop time( DL\_RLC\_UM\_DLY\_AIR\_IF's stop time)

Start time(5G-L2-HI-DU has received the corresponding RLC SDU. refer timeStamp on 5G\_L2\_IF\_928\_replaced([10985810](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2WKUr_u6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

Stop time - Start time =  DL\_RLC\_SDU\_DLY  +  DL\_RLC\_UM\_DLY\_AIR\_IF;

L2LO shall combine totalDelayInL2HiCuAndF1U(inferred from L2HI-DU) + ( Stop time - Start time ) to calculate delay incurred in NG-RAN as  UmDlRlcSduPacketDelay.

Note:

if the totalDelayInL2HiCuAndF1U(inferred from L2HI-DU) was zero(considered as invalid contribution delay), the calculation of UmDlRlcSduPacketDelay will be invalid.

---

### 3.5.5.0-4 DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE The type of DC-GBR compliant packet's DL PER state: Delivered within PDB packet,  Late packet and Lost packet (ID: 11216585)

**3.5.5.0-4.0-1**  (ID: `11216595`)

DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE
In order to separate DL PER's contribution factors without ambiguity, the packet state used for DL PER calculation been defined as below:

**Delivered within PDB packet: all segments were delivered successfully to UE within PDB.**

**Late packet: all segments were delivered successfully to UE, but not all within PDB.**

**Lost packet: at least one segment was lost, for example due to max Harq ReTx.**

Note：

In order to reduce the UM DL RLC SDU's air interface lifespan time and also the SDU list length in 5G-L2-Lo internal database, at least one segment was not received the Final-ACK status & exceed 200ms (Agreement reached with SFS) shall be considered as lost.

[image-0][image\_desc]The image is a timeline diagram illustrating different states of data transmission. The timeline spans 200ms. At the beginning of the timeline, there is a segment labeled "RANPDB" with an arrow indicating a duration. Below this, a green segment is labeled "ACK", representing an acknowledged transmission. This is followed by a yellow segment labeled "Late ACK", indicating an acknowledgment that arrived after a certain delay. Finally, a gray segment at the end of the timeline is labeled "Lost", signifying data that was not successfully transmitted or acknowledged.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m24dng\_5G\_L2\_Entity\_Level\_file\_11914.001.png[/image\_path][/image-0]

---
