# 3.17 DL-CCCH and DL-DCCH management

## 3.17.0-4 DL-CCCH and DL-DCCH management Overview (ID: 11153313)

**3.17.0-4.0-3**  (ID: `11153326`)

DL-CCCH and DL-DCCH management
The C-Plane decides the procedure type (DL-CCCH or DL-DCCH) according to the UE context:

 A RRC procedure to setup the UE or to recover the UE. The RRC setup procedure could be multiplexed with the CRI MAC CE or not. On top, the C-Plane decides about the procedure to apply to setup the UE:

 RRC setup (DL-CCCH) with or without UE-Specific search space(s) and with or without UE dedicated configuration (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17951\_replaced([11153395](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJBfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

If the UE dedicated configuration is deactivated, the 5G-L2-PS applies the restriction detailed in the requirement 5G\_UP\_ALG\_21806\_replaced([11110950](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpJMYfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), until the activation of the UE dedicated part.

 RRC reestablishment (DL-DCCH) with or without UE-Specific search space(s) and without UE dedicated configuration (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17972\_replaced([11153597](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXKPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

The 5G-L2-PS has received an indication about the reception of a UL-CCCH message and the C-Plane has decided to send a DL-DCCH message instead of a RRC setup. In that case the 5G-L2-PS received an indication that the reestablishment procedure is triggered.

Only the SRB1 is established and the UE has already released the cell parameters on his side (RRC parameters under the IE spCellConfig). Therefore, it is expected that the C-Plane indicates that the UE dedicated configuration is not activated and the 5G-L2-PS applies the same restrictions as for the RRC setup without UE dedicated configuration activated (see above).

After the RRC restablishment complete, the C-Plane triggers a DL-DCCH(RRC reconfiguration) procedure to recover the full configuration in the UE and to allow the legacy behavior in the 5G-L2-PS.

 RRC resume (DL-DCCH) which restores the UE context by activating the UE dedicated configuration with the RRC message (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17972\_replaced([11153597](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXKPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

The 5G-L2-PS has received an indication about the reception of a UL-CCCH message, and the C-Plane has decided to send a DL-DCCH message with the UE dedicated configuration. In that case, the 5G-L2-PS received an indication that the resume procedure is triggered. Only SRB1 is established...

 A RRC procedure to modify the UE configuration requesting synchronization between the C-Plane, the U-Plane. The U-Plane sends the DL-DCCH, activates the new configuration, and suspends the UL grants until the completion of the procedure (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17972\_replaced([11153597](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXKPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

To handle DL-CCCH or DL-DCCH procedure, the U-Plane monitors the **[Before CNI-127390-B]SRB0 and SRB1**[CNI-127390-B]SRB**[End CNI-127390-B] buffers in the gNB. Then, according to the buffer type, the U-Plane delivers the RRC messages and starts a timer before allowing the uplink grant as follows:**\*\*\*\*

 If U-Plane receives an indication to deliver a DL-CCCH message to the UE (L2-LO: LoCtrl\_CchDataInd[SRB0]), it could be:

 Small RRC setup (DL-DCCH). In that case the RRC processing delay before allowing UL grant is 10ms.

 Regular RRC setup (DL-DCCH). In that case the RRC processing delay before allowing UL grant is 10ms + [6ms] according to the target BWP signaled by the C-Plane (firstActiveBwp).

 RRC reject (DL-DCCH). In tht case the RRC processing delay before allowing UL grant is 10ms, if the connection is not already closed.

For  a DL-CCCH procedure, the U-Plane applies the follwoing timer: 10ms + [6ms] according to the target BWP signaled by the C-Plane.

 If U-Plane receives an indication to deliver a DL-DCCH message to the UE (L2-LO: LoCtrl\_DlBufferStatusInd[SRB1]), according to the state of the UE dedicated configuration (disabled,inProgress,activated), it could be:

 UE dedicated configuration: disabled

 RRC release (DL-DCCH). In that case the RRC Processing Delay before allowing UL grant is 5ms.

 RRC reestablishment (DL-DCCH). In that case the RRC Processing Delay before allowing UL grant is 10ms.

 UE dedicated configuration: inProgress

 RRC reconfiguration (DL-DCCH). In that case, the RRC Processing Delay before allowing UL grant is 10 ms + [6 ms] according to the target BWP signaled by the C-Plane (firstActiveBwp).

 RRC resume (DL-DCCH). In that case, the RRC Processing Delay before allowing the UL grant is 10 ms + [6 ms] according to the target BWP signaled by the C-Plane (firstActiveBwp).

 **[CNI-127390-B] UE dedicated configuration: Activated**

Until the first DRB configuration, the U-Plane shall apply MAC layer monitoring each time it has to deliver a DL-DCCH without any trigger from the C-Plane, by monitoring the downlink SRB1 buffer (buffer indication change with at least data to send).

In that case, the RRC processing delay before allowing the UL grant shall be 5 ms. [PR832899-25R3] Until the first DRB configuration, the gNB-DU shall start MAC layer monitoring for a new DL-DCCH procedure only after it finishes processing the current one. [End PR832899-25R3] **[End CNI-127390-B]**

To trigger an UL grant after the timer (and avoid to wait for the RA procedure(no SR conifgured yet) or a positive SR, the U-Plane adds few bytes in the Uplink SRB1 buffer of the UE, leading to add the UE in the candidate UE for scheduling list in the first slot which handle UL grant capability, right after the end of the timer.

When the UE did not report any Power Headroom Report (PHR) yet, it is expected to consider that the UE is power limited and it is expected to use the minimum number of PUSCH RBs and to use the initial uplink MCS defined at the NIDD (NRCELL.ullaIniMcs)

---

## 3.17.1 Management of parameters for C-RNTI configuration

### 3.17.1.0-1 Management of parameters for C-RNTI configuration Default configuration (ID: 11153341)

**3.17.1.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11153345`)

Management of parameters for C-RNTI configuration
The default configuration to send RRC messages until the activation of the dedicated configuration (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17940\_replaced([11153286](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kslh8vvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) is the following:

 Before the any DL HARQ feedback received for a PDSCH transmission using the dllaIniMcs, the U-Plane uses the dllaIniMcs. after this first HARQ feedback, the MCS proposed from LA input which is defined by 5G\_UP\_ALG\_3045\_replaced([11125301](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kqt5svvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and 5G\_UP\_ALG\_3050\_replaced([11129035](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kq6uAPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), final MCS correction is defined by 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4630\_replaced([11192270](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvjWafvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))(MCS is selected from 64QAM MCS table).

 PRBs are granted within CORESET(0).

If the UE has no dedicated configuration activated (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17951\_replaced([11153395](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJBfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17951\_replaced([11153395](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJBfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). Otherwise, the number of RB allocated is defiend in the 5G\_UP\_ALG\_16521\_replaced([11179343](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ku5PF_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4502\_replaced([11179653](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ku52LvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

 Single layer.

 dmrs-AdditionalPosition equals to 'pos2'.

 DL DMRS configuration type 1 is used.

 Number of CDM groups without data shall be set to 2.

 When DSS is activated, specific TDRA and LTE Cell-RS punturing is applied, avoiding the interference on the LTE tranmissions.

---

### 3.17.1.1 Modification of C-RNTI settings and their activation

#### 3.17.1.1.0-1 Modification of C-RNTI settings and their activation Modification of DL parameters and activation (ID: 11153360)

**3.17.1.1.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11153374`)

Modification of C-RNTI settings and their activation
When the C-Plane modifies UE parameters related to the downlink which have an impact on the DCI Format 1\_1 size or/and PDSCH transmissions, and triggers a specific procedure to modify and to activate the new setting (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26859\_replaced([11153624](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXLvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))), the U-Plane applies the following procedure:

 The new settings are stored and not activated immediately.

 The U-Plane activates the new settings, when it considers that the UE received the RRC message and is processing it (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26249\_replaced([11153730](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-PvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

This new management of parameter modification is not triggered by the C-Plane during CA procedures (Scell addition/delete/modification).

The list of DL parameters which coud be modified by the C-Plane in this context, are the following:

 Number of dedicated BWP(s) configured and their location and size.

 Size of TDRA list (5G\_UP\_ALG\_2396\_replaced([11115520](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpvCRvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 mcs-table (5G\_CP\_ARC\_ALG\_2246\_replaced([11282471](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_TpfBz_vcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 maxNumOfDlLayers (5G\_CP\_ARC\_ALG\_2364\_replaced([11285001](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Tpu5aPvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 dmrsAdditionalPosition (5G\_CP\_ARC\_ALG\_2242\_replaced([11282395](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_TpfBwPvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 DL DMRS configuration type.

 CSI-RS (zero power and non zero power), CSI-IM configuration.

 [PR771791] dynamicswitch resource allocation (when NIDD parameters NRCELL.actRat1Alloc = true and NRCELL.actDlDynSwitchAlloc = true) .  [End PR771791]

The configuration parameters related to CA procedures (first Scell addition or last Scell release) which have an impact on the DCI Format 1\_1 are not managed in two steps (storage and activation). Therefore, it is not expected that the C-Plane triggers this behavior in the U-Plane by indicating a UE dedicated configuration update.

---

#### 3.17.1.1.0-2 Modification of C-RNTI settings and their activation Modification of UL parameters and usage (ID: 11153382)

**3.17.1.1.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11153388`)

Modification of C-RNTI settings and their activation
When the C-Plane modifies UE parameters related to the uplink which have an impact on the DCI Format 0\_1 size or/and PUSCH and or PUCCH transmissions, and triggers a specific procedure to modify and to activate the new setting (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26859\_replaced([11153624](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXLvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))), the U-Plane should follows the following rules:

 If the RRC processing delay is used, the gNB does not trigger UL grants, before the time where the UE could not discard the UL grant with the new configuration applied regarding the DCI Format size and its associated PUSCH transmission. Therefore the new setting impacting the DCI Format 0\_1 usage and its associated PUSCH, must be available not after the completion of the RRC processing delay.

 For the parameters impacting the PUCCH and when the RRC processing delay is used, until the delivery of the RRC message, the UE is using the previous PUCCH setting. The gNB should not use the new setting earlier than the delivery of RRC message (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4602\_replaced([11187378](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvazhPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 For the parameters impacting the DCI Format 0\_1 size or/and PUSCH, the U-Plane activates the new settings, not after it considers that the UE is able to receive UL DCI and not before the RRC message delivery from the MAC layer point of view (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26249\_replaced([11153730](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-PvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) when DCI Format 0\_1 are used  in parallel.

The list of UL parameters which could be modified by the C-Plane in this context, are the following:

 Number of dedicated BWP configured and their location and size.

 Number of Time Domain Resource Assignment (TDRA) configured (See 5G\_UP\_ALG\_7056\_replaced([11171578](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kuFWzvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 The number of SRS resource set configured for the usage defined by the txConfig parameter.

 The number of SRS ports and the associated maxRank and maxMIMO-Layers configured.

 The Scheduling Request configuration.

 The transform precoder activation.

 The codebook subset restriction.

 The DM-RS type configuration.

 The PT-RS configuration.

 The Aperiodic CSI configuration.

 The beta offset parameters.

 The CSI report configuration.

 The PUCCH resource modification.

---

## 3.17.2 DL-CCCH: RRC setup procedure

### 3.17.2.0-1 DL-CCCH: RRC setup procedure Reception of DL-CCCH data indication (SRB0) (ID: 11153402)

**3.17.2.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11153408`)

DL-CCCH: RRC setup procedure
After the successful of MAC CE CRI transmission, and upon reception of LoCtrl\_CcchDataInd from 5G-L2-LO, indicating the availability and the size (IE sizeOfRrcMsg) of the CCCH data, 5G-L2-PS shall initiate the scheduling of the UE by adding it to the pre-scheduler candidate set.

The scheduling and the retransmission of CCCH data follow 5G\_L1L2\_FLOW\_259\_replaced([11194519](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BfqWrfvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

The DCI to be created by the DL scheduler for SRB0 message is specified in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_16216\_replaced([11178050](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kuzvjPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

Upon reception of message LoCtrl\_CcchDataInd indicating the availability and the size (IE sizeOfRrcMsg) of the DL-CCCH data, 5G-L2-PS shall initiate the scheduling of the UE by adding it to the pre-scheduler candidate set. Furthermore, 5G-L2-PS shall stop the sendRachMsg4WithOutHIMessage timer (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17990\_replaced([11153010](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksjswvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) if it is running. If the MAC CE for Contention Resolution Identity (CRI) was not already scheduled, 5G-L2-PS shall include the MAC CE CRI in the Transport Block as well.

If LoCtrl\_CcchDataInd is addressed to C-RNTI of UE for which contention resolution was considered not resolved, 5G-L2-PS shall ignore the message and respectively not schedule DL-CCCH transmission. Upon reception of LoCtrl\_CcchDataInd from 5G-L2-LO, 5G-L2-PS shall store the value of IE isRrcReject which is used to decide whether scheduling of MSG5 (5G\_UP\_ALG\_3455\_replaced([11153560](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXIvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and BWP switch (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17939\_replaced([11110885](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpIlUfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) will be performed.

In case 5G-L2-PS assumes UE contention resolution has been solved according 5G\_UP\_ALG\_6436\_replaced([11152979](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksjFu_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and UL CCCH is received , it shall be dropped. (the exact drop start timing could be decided by low level implementation)

Note: according Table 7.1-2: RNTI usage of 3GPP 38.321, after UE contention resolution complete, UE has a valid C-RNTI, it is not expected to receive any UL-SCH transmission from CCCH logic channel granted by C-RNTI, this is intended to hanlde the mismatched case that UE does not decode RA-Msg4 succesufully but 5G-L2-PS has already started UL grant for RA-Msg5 and to avoid the RA-Msg3 duplication sent by the UE to be delivered to high layer by using the RA-Msg5 UL grant.

The required minimum TBS of RA Msg4/SRB0 message (buffer utilization) is the value of IE sizeOfRrcMsg plus, if required to be sent, the size of the MAC CE CRI (6 bytes) and its R/R/LCID 5G-MAC sub-header (1 byte).

Note, IE sizeOfRrcMsg includes already the 5G-MAC sub-header for CCCH data:

5G-MAC sub-header for CCCH data 2 or 3 bytes.

The MCS determinination for SRB0 message/Msg4 is as in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4628\_replaced([11192229](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvjWYfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

---

### 3.17.2.0-2 DL-CCCH: RRC setup procedure DL-CCCH:RRC setup procedure with or without MAC CE Contention Resolution Identity (ID: 11153416)

**3.17.2.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11153421`)

DL-CCCH: RRC setup procedure
With or without the CRI MAC CE, when the  DL-CCCH indication (RRC setup) is received, the 5G-L2-PS determines:

 The expected target BWP, indicated by the C-Plane at the UE context confirmation (PsUser\_UserSetupReq) for the temporary UE context created by the U-Plane (during the CBRA procedure).

If the firstActiveBwp is defined by the C-Plane and does not correspond to BWP-0, the completion of the RRC setup procedure will lead to have a RRC BWP switch. therefore the timer used by the 5G-L2-PS waiting for the completion of the UE RRC processing is extended (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17985\_replaced([11153522](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmwHPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 The availability of the dedicated configuration after the RRC setup procedure.

When the C-Plane indicates that the UE dedicated configuration is disabled, the 5G-L2-PS will used after the completion of the RRC procedure only common downlink and uplink resources (PDCCH/PDSCH/PUCCH/PUSCH) configured in the SIB1 and until the dedicated resources are activated (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17972\_replaced([11153597](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXKPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). The common resources available are the followings:

 The Type1-PDCCH (common search space for DL/UL grants).

 The Common TDRA resources for the PDSCH allocation broadcasted in the SIB1.

 The number of parallel HARQ processes for PDSCH is restricted to 8.

 The DL slot for UE scheduling must not handle the CSI-RS for tracking (not yet configured in the UE, therefore no rate matching could be applied).

 The Common PUCCH resources for HARQ feedback.

The UCI (only HARQ feedback as CSI reports are not configured yet) could be sent by the UE on PUSCH for FR2. Otherwise, the Ack/Nack are not allowed in PUSCH avoidding issue in UE side.

There is no Scheduling Request configured, therefore the UE will trigger potentially RA procedure to get UL grants.

The number of DL HARQ feedback multiplexing in the same PUCCH resource is not allowed due to UE issue when common pucch index defined PUCCH Format 1, otherwise it is PUCCH Format 0 and there is no multiplexing allowed.

There is no request/decoding of CSI report.

 There is no SRS configuration, therefore no request towards the L1/UE(DCI) regarding the SRS.

 The Common TDRA resources for the PUSCH allocation broadcasted in the SIB1.

 The pro active scheduling is not activated.

When the C-Plane indicates that the dedicated resources are disabled, it is expected that the gNB (first active BWP from the C-Plane, current UE active BWP in the UE context) and real UE active BWP is the initial BWP (BWP-0). Otherwise, there is a mismatch and the UE will be lost after the RRC setup procedure.

For the DL-CCCH message, it is not possible to segment the message (RLC-TM). Therefore the 5G-L2-PS checks whether the CRI MAC CE should be added or not and computes the expected minimum TBS size (5G\_UP\_ALG\_18114\_replaced([11153428](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJCvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

Then the 5G-L2-PS computes the link adaptation of the MAC-PDU according to the size of the CORESET(0) and the PDSCH TDRA allowed in the SIB1. The 5G-L2-PS computes the combinations of RB, MCS and TDRA allowing a TBS compatible with the MAC-PDU size (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18114\_replaced([11153428](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJCvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

---

### 3.17.2.1 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation

### 3.17.2.1-1 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation

**3.17.2.1-1.0-2**  (ID: `11153479`)

Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation
[Before CNI-81991] ; Until the UE is scheduled, the 5G-L2-PS add the UE (TC-RNTI if CRI is Upon reception of LoCtrl\_UlMacPduReceiveInd with isUlCcchData IE set to TRUE indicating successful reception of RA-Msg3 with UL CCCH (SRB0), 5G-L2-PS shall add the UE to the pre-scheduler candidate set to initiate scheduling of the RA-Msg4 with MAC CE for Contention Resolution Identity (CRI). Accordingly, 5G-L2-PS shall consider 7 bytes for buffer utilization (minimum TBS of RA Msg4), which corresponds to the size of the MAC CE CRI (5G\_L2\_9963\_replaced([11215690](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-5mTvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and the required R/R/LCID 5G-MAC sub-header (5G\_L2\_1970\_replaced([11215653](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2-5mSPvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). [End CNI-81991]

[CNI-81991] ; Until the UE is scheduled, the 5G-L2-PS adds the UE to the pre-scheduler candidate set to initiate the scheduling of the MAC-PDU (TC-RNTI, if CRI is included in the MAC-PDU, or C-RNTI if CRI was already sent to the UE).

To schedule the UE, the 5G-L2-PS selects the Type1-PDCCH search space (DCI Format 1\_0) for:

 TC-RNTI if a CRI MAC CE is included in the MAC-PDU (5G\_UP\_ALG\_4051\_replaced([11168618](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ktxNt_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))),

 C-RNTI if the DL-CCCH, is alone in the MAC-PDU  (5G\_UP\_ALG\_4053\_replaced([11168627](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ktxNufvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

[End CNI-81991]

---

### 3.17.2.1-2 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation

**3.17.2.1-2.0-2**  (ID: `12659476`)

Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation
Same HARQ Handling as for any other PDSCH transmission (5G\_UP\_ALG\_4525\_replaced([11184113](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvP0a_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) is applied to RA Msg4/SRB0 except that the maximum number of HARQ ReTransmissions is set by the R&D parameter rdMaxDlHarqMsg4 (5G\_UP\_ALG\_10801\_replaced([11153242](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksk66vvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))

Candidates to RA-Msg4/SRB0 1st transmission and retransmission(s) belong to harqRetransMsg4 request class of the DL Scheduler.

Retransmission of Msg4 follows 5G\_L1L2\_FLOW\_259\_replaced([11194519](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BfqWrfvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

During contention resolution timer contResTimer is running, if RA-Msg4 reach max retransmissions [Before CNI-137616-C] and rdScheduleMsg5AfterMsg4TxFailed (5G\_UP\_ALG\_11369\_replaced([11153260](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksk67fvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) is true [End CNI-137616-C], consider UE contention resolution complete and schedule msg5 as UP\_ALG\_3455.

If the contention resolution timer contResTimer expires, scheduling for RA-Msg4 retransmissions is stopped and 5G-L2-PS assumes contention was not resolved. The temporary UE context would be released after rrmL2PsTempUeTimerExt\_mSec expires (as per 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18931\_replaced([11152830](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksieo_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). **See 5G\_UP\_ALG\_12681\_replaced([11152993](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksjFvfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for specification about Contention resolution timer handling.**

---

### 3.17.2.1-3 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation

**3.17.2.1-3.0-3**  (ID: `11153517`)

Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation
If rdMaxNumberOfPuschSymbolsInUlSlot=13 and L2-PS is expecting feedback from MAC CE contention resolution on common PUCCH resources with format 0 (index 0-2 in DCI), L2-PS shall indicate to UL-PS not to allocate any UL resources overlapping with initial BWP on OFDM symbol 12.

L2-PS shall add temporaryCrnti to the list of pending common PUCCH resources upon reception of LoCtrl\_UlMacPduReceiveInd with isUlCcchData IE set to TRUE indicating successful reception of RA Msg3 with UL CCCH (SRB0) and remove it upon contention resolution or failure.

Until the UE dedicated configuration is activated [CB010544-A] including the UE in the initial BWP without dedicated configuration [End CB010544-A], the 5G-L2-PS uses only the common PUCCH resources to get the HARQ feedback for any (re)transmission(s).

---

### 3.17.2.1-4 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation

#### 3.17.2.1-4.0-4 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation 11153553: Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation Upon the initial transmission of the HARQ process handling the DL-CCCH, the 5G-L2-PS triggers the following actions:  Start an overall protection to not suspend the UL scheduler for a too long time. The timer in slots (harqRrcMsgTimeout) should be enough large to handle the whole HARQ processing to send the RRC reconfig with maxDlHarqTx. As this timer will be used at each time the gNB monitors the SRB1 buffer to detect the RRC message delivery towards the UE, when SR is configured in the UE, this timer should not be larger than the maximum number of SR period allowed. harqRrcMsgTimeout = rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr x [srPreriodConfigured, defaultPerioNoSr] with, rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr: Value in the range 1 to 64 and initialized to 42 srPreriodConfigured: SR period which is active or which will be activated after the RRC Msg (if present). If the SR period is modified, then the smallest value is used. defaultPerioNoSr: Default period used when the UE has no SR conifgured. It should not be used if SR will be configured (see previous case). the default value in slot corresponds to 5ms and is expressed in slots accoridng to the numerology. the range is between 5 and 20 ms. If the timer expires, the gNB flushes any pending DL and UL HARQ processes (RLC retransmissions will be triggered if needed), considers that the procedure is completed, activates the new configuration and removes all restrictions activated previously.  Suspend any uplink transmissions which are not linked to the reception of a RA-Msg3 (initial or retransmission) for this UE (with no SR resource configured yet) or to the contention resolution when the UE reports a CRNTI MAC CE with the same RNTI or when the UE RRC processing delay is running.  If the UE dedicated configuration is activated in the UE context, the 5G-L2-PS manages all resources configured by the C-Plane in the target BWP (fisrt active BWP) and activates Scheduling Request detection and the remaining part of the dedicated configuration. During the RRC message processing, the UE may not respond to the UL grant, neverthless, as soon as the completion of the processing in the UE, it has only 2 options:  Acknowledge the procedure by trying to send the RRC message to the gNB. If the UE has a SR opportunity, it will send the SR to request an uplink grant [PR812678], but gNB-DU shall not send UL grant. Rationale: This is to avoid UL BLER in case UE has not processed the RRC message and sending UL grant with new configuration might result in DTX. Whereas this can cause latency in RRC procedure if UE had processed the RRC message earlier. **[End PR812678] If there is no SR configured, the UE will trigger a RA procedure leading to send back the CRNTI MAC CE.  Trigger a random access procedure to send an UL-CCCH (re-establishment).  If the UE dedicated configuration is disabled in the UE context, the 5G-L2-PS does not activate any dedicated configuration as only the SRB1 is activated in the BWP-0. The UE will have only the capability to trigger the RA procedure requesting uplink grants until the dedicated configuration is sent and acknowledged by the UE.  Start the monitoring of the HARQ Process feedback and stores the k1 value used. When the HARQ process is acknowledged, or when the HARQ feedback corresponding to the last retransmission is known (Ack/Nack or Dtx), the 5G-L2-PS starts the timer rrcProcessingDelay and flushes any pending UL and DL HARQ processes (no pending HARQ is expected). The timer is defined according to the k1 value used for the current HARQ, the size of the MAC-SDU handling the DL-CCCH, the potential BWP swicth requested by the C-Plane and an optional timer as follows: rrcProcessingDelay = ((rrcMsgProcessingDelay + rrcBwpSwitchDelay +  addRrcProcessingDelay) x 2 ^ µ) - k1 with, rrcMsgProcessingDelay: If the UE dedicated configuration is activated, then the value is 10ms. If the UE dedicated configuration is disabled, then the value could be set to 10ms, due to the slowness to process the small RRC setup (23 bytes). rrcBwpSwicthDelay: If the first active BWP is signaled by the C-Plane and is not the current UE active BWP, the value is 6ms, otherwise the value is set to 0ms. addRrcProcessingDelay: number of additional subframes to extend the timer to delay the uplink grants during the RRC configuration procedure without reception of a scheduling request (see 5G_L2_1437_replaced( 11182807 )). µ: numerology associated to the SCS configured in the PsCell_CellGroupSetupReq (15kHz: 0, 30kHz: 1; 120kHz: 3) [Before PR812678]At the first occurrence between the detection of SR, if configured in the UE, or [End PR812678] The detection of the new RA procedure with CRNTI MAC CE on the RNTI (RA-Msg3) or the end of the timer rrcProcessingDelay, the 5G-L2-PS considers that the RRC procedure is completed and allows the uplink and downlink grants according to the PDCCH configuration. If only the Type1-PDCCH or/and Type3-PDCCH are available, the 5G-L2-PS sends only DCI Format x_0 ; x = [0,1] on the expected search space. The U-Plane adds in the UL buffer of SRB1 (5G_UP_ALG_26555_replaced( 11153913 )), few bytes (11 bytes the right size would be linked to the minRbPusch and ullaIniMcs) corresponding the UE response, if expected (only for the rrcSetup), in order to trigger an UL grant before the UE request (positive SR if there is no UL grant). The overal sequence is summarized hearafter. [image-0][image_desc]The image is a diagram illustrating two sequences of events related to UE (User Equipment) configuration and data transmission in a mobile network, likely 5G. The diagram uses a timeline format, with events occurring from left to right. There are two main horizontal timelines, labeled "Optimal Sequence" and "Sequence allowed due to design constraints". Optimal Sequence Timeline: * Left side: * "ueDedicatedConfig: disabled" * "ueDedicatedConfig: in Progress" * "harqRrcMsgTimer" * Middle section: * "PPC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI/LO)" * "UCI on PUSCH avoidance" * "PUCCH: 1 bit Ack/Nack" * "SRB1 buffer detection" * "UE RRC Msg delivery" * Right side: * "rrProcessing Delay" * "Flush UL HARQ Add few bytes in ueBuffer(SRB1)" * "End of timer or successful completion UL grant (AUG)" * "No restrictions" * Below the timeline: * A bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is not done yet. Only DC Format 1_0 or 0_0 (Type1) are allowed." * Another bracket indicates that "UL grant Blocked (except RA contention resolution) to let enough time for the RRC Msg Processing in the UE." * A final bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is activated. DC Format 1_1 or 0_1 are used." Sequence allowed due to design constraints Timeline: This timeline is visually similar to the "Optimal Sequence" but has some key differences in the events and their implications. * Left side: * "ueDedicatedConfig: disabled" * "ueDedicatedConfig: in Progress" * "harqRrcMsgTimer" * Middle section: * "PPC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI/LO)" * "UCI on PUSCH avoidance" * "PUCCH: 1 bit Ack/Nack" * "SRB1 buffer detection" * "UE RRC Msg delivery" * Right side: * "rrProcessing Delay" * "Flush UL HARQ Add few bytes in ueBuffer(SRB1)" * "End of timer or successful completion UL grant (AUG)" * "No restrictions" * Below the timeline:** * A bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is not done yet. Only DC Format 1_0 or 0_0 (Type1) are allowed." * A more complex bracket indicates that "UL grant Blocked (except RA contention resolution). No UC on PUSCH occurs due to UL grant filtering (need to take care about the contention resolution by UL grant)." * A final bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is activated. DC Format 1_1 or 0_1 are used." The diagram highlights the timing and dependencies of various network procedures, particularly concerning UE configuration and the impact of UL grant filtering on PUSCH (Physical Uplink Shared Channel) transmissions. The "Optimal Sequence" appears to represent a more efficient or desired flow, while the "Sequence allowed due to design constraints" shows a scenario where certain limitations or filtering mechanisms might lead to different outcomes or delays.[/image_desc][image_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng_files/images/HTML_m22dng_5G_UP_Algorithms_file_10074.001.png[/image_path][/image-0] File: DL-xCCH_CompletionSequence.vsdx Folder: (ID: 11153553)

### 3.17.2.1-5 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation

**3.17.2.1-5.0-3**  (ID: `11153580`)

Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation
The U-Plane considers that the procedure is completed when the rrcProcessingDelay timer is started [Before PR837692] **[Before CB013742-A] [End PR837692] (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17985\_replaced([11153522](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmwHPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))),**[CB013742-A](5G_UP_ALG_29060_replaced([11153872](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMVPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))**[End CB013742-A] and one of the following conditions is met:**\*\*\*\*

 The timer is ended without any SR reception or detection of a RA procedure from the UE.

 Before the end of the timer, the U-plane detects a positive SR from the UE.

 Before the end of the timer, the U-plane detects a RA procedure with a RA-Msg3 handling a MAC Control Element CRNTI for the UE.

 The overall protection timer (harqRrcMsgTimeout) is ended.

Then, as the DL-CCCH procedure is completed and the gNB allows uplink grants for the pending SR (if received) and manages the potential BSR received or optionally to get additional data from the UE. if the DL-CCCH indication corresponds to a RRC reject, then the gNB should not trigger an uplink grant.

If the U-Plane decides itself to send Uplink grant to the UE (no pending SR or no ongoing RA procedure), the UE may discard the UL grant received if the grant is sent before the end of the 3GPP RRC processing delay (RRC setup without RRC BWP switch: 10ms, RRC setup with RRC BWP switch: 16ms as detailed in the 38.331 section 12 and 38.133 section 8.6.3). The gNB uses a smaller timer than the 3GPP when the small RRC setup procedure is used as the RRC message is very small (only 23 bytes) trying to reduce the duration of the RRC procedure (the drawback is that we may waste PDCCH and PUSCH resources, when threre is no response from the UE. Waiting for positive SR or at least its duration to trigger a UL grant would be more relevant if the SR periodicity is not too large).

The DCI Format used for the uplink grant depends which type of search space available for the UE according the UE configuration:

 When the UE dedicated configuration is not activated, only the Type1 PDCCH is allowed (only DCI Format x\_0 could be used).

 When the UE dedicated configuration is activated and no UE-Specific search space is configured, only the Type3 PDCCH is allowed (only DCI Format x\_0 could be used).

 When the UE dedicated configuration is activated and at least a UE-Specific search space is configured, Type3 and UE-Specific search space are allowed (DCI Format x\_0 or x\_1 could be used).

**The benfit to use the DCI Format 0\_0 are:**

 A common search space is used since the beginning of the RA procedure.

 The DCI Format size which is not modified by the parameters sent in the donwlink RRC message to configure the UE.

 The coverage of the DCI Format 0\_0 is the same as the DCI Format 1\_0 used during the RA procedure.

For the PUSCH resources, the smallest length of PUSCH symbols starting at symbol 0 and configured in the UE is used. The MCS should be the one configured by the operator as the Uplink link adaptation is not yet started. The minimal number of RBs allocated must allow a TBS allowing enough data on top of the L2 and L3 headers.

---

### 3.17.2.1-6 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation

**3.17.2.1-6.0-2**  (ID: `12980526`)

Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation
Upon receiving the indication LoCtrl\_CcchDataInd with IE isRrcReject = TRUE (Ue is marked as rejected), due to Control Plane overload protection mechanism, gNB-DU shall delete UE context/data immediately after the set of conditions are met:

* UE is temporary

* No more data in buffers (the CCCH been sent)
* No ongoing DL HARQ processes (to mitigate the issue of CRI sent independently of the CCCH)

---

#### 3.17.2.1.0-1 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation With UE dedicated configuration activated (ID: 11153435)

**3.17.2.1.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11153444`)

Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation
[Before CNI-81991] ; The MCS determination for RA-Msg4/SRB0 message reuses the MCS downgrade function as defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4630\_replaced([11192270](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvjWafvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

The TBS determination for RA Msg4/SRB0 message is defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4628\_replaced([11192229](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvjWYfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)). [End CNI-81991]

[CNI-81991] ;The expected slot used for the DL-CCCH message with or without CRI MAC CE is a DL14 slot format with or without CSI-RS at the end of the slot, even if the common TDRA allowed in the SIB1 provides more capabilities.

The TDRA used is determined at the runtime according to the location and number of symbols allowed for the PDSCH in the target slot (DL14) to transmit the HARQ process  for the initial transmission.

Then, the MCS determination to handle the  message reuses the MCS downgrade function as defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4630\_replaced([11192270](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvjWafvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

The TBS determination for RA Msg4/SRB0 message is defined in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_4628\_replaced([11192229](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kvjWYfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).[End CNI-81991]

---

#### 3.17.2.1.0-2 Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation With UE dedicated configuration disabled (ID: 11153451)

**3.17.2.1.0-2.0-2**  (ID: `11153462`)

Minimum Transport Block Size to handle the DL-CCCH message and Link Adaptation
When the UE dedicated configuration is disabled in the UE context [CB010544-A] including the UE in the initial BWP without dedicated configuration [End CB010544-A], the DL-CCCH is small and the frequency resources (nRB) and the MCS could be reduced.

The 5G-L2-PS checks if the CRI MAC CE must be multiplexed with the DL-CCCH. The 5G-L2-LO provides the 5G-L2-PS with the size of the MAC header and the associated MAC-SDU (sizeOfRrcMsg). If the CRI MAC CE must be added, the 5G-L2-PS adds the MAC CE size (6 bytes) and its MAC sub-header (1 byte) to the size of the RRC message to send to the UE.

The 5G-L2-PS computes the number of RB, not larger than the CORESET(0) size, to handle the expected TBS for each SLIV in the common TDRA list (5G\_UP\_ALG\_2391\_replaced([11115362](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpt0IPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))), with the initial MCS defined in the cell (NRCELL.dllaIniMcs), assuming 2 additional DM-RS, 1 layer and no data in the CDM group.

If there is no combination of TDRA, MCS and RB with at least a start symbol equal to the DM-RS type A position, the 5G-L2-PS increase the MCS by one and restarts the computation of the combination (TDRA, MCS, RB) as long as the condition is not met (at least one combination with a start symbol equal to DM-RS type A position is valid leading to not get more RB than the CORESET(0) size).

When the valid combinations are computed, it may restrict the candidate slots for the transmisison. When the slot allows one of the valid combination(s) according to the PDSCH start symbol and length allowed, the 5G-L2-PS tries to schedule the message (5G\_UP\_ALG\_18004\_replaced([11153469](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmwEvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

---

## 3.17.3 DL-DCCH: RRC reconfiguration or restablishment or reject or resume(with an explicit state of UE dedicated configuration)

### 3.17.3.0-1 DL-DCCH: RRC reconfiguration or restablishment or reject or resume(with an explicit state of UE dedicated configuration) Reception of DL-DCCH data indication (SRB1) before the contention resolution with CRI MAC CE (ID: 11153602)

**3.17.3.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11153608`)

DL-DCCH: RRC reconfiguration or restablishment or reject or resume(with an explicit state of UE dedicated configuration)
If LoCtrl\_DlBufferStatusInd indicating data availability for SRB1 (logicalChannelIdentity set to 1; DL-DCCH RRC message) is received for a UE and the MAC CE for Contention Resolution Identity (CRI) was not sent already due to expiry of the sendRachMsg4WithOutHIMessage timer (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17990\_replaced([11153010](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksjswvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))), 5G-L2-PS shall initiate the scheduling of the UE by adding it to the pre-scheduler candidate set (5G\_UP\_ALG\_18928\_replaced([11174508](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kucjJ_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). When UE is scheduled, 5G-L2-PS shall include the MAC CE CRI in the Transport Block as well.

Note: In case Reestablishment MAC CE for CRI is sent immediately without waiting for expiry of the sendRachMsg4WithOutHIMessage timer.

[CNI-81991] ; Otherwise, the HARQ of the CRI MAC CE is still pending and the 5G-L2-PS waits for the completion of the RA procedure with CRI MAC CE alone as described in the requirement 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17988\_replaced([11152986](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksjFvPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), before to transmit the DL-DCCH message (5G\_UP\_ALG\_18929\_replaced([11153613](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXK_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). [End CNI-81991]

Furthermore 5G-L2-PS shall stop the sendRachMsg4WithOutHIMessage timer.

[Before CNI-81991] ; The DCI to be created by the DL scheduler for RA-Msg4(CRI MAC CE) with DL-DCCH(SRB1) message is specified in 5G\_UP\_ALG\_16216\_replaced([11178050](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kuzvjPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)). [End CNI-81991]

[CNI-81991] ; To schedule the UE, the 5G-L2-PS selects the Type1-PDCCH search space (DCI Format 1\_0) for TC-RNTI (5G\_UP\_ALG\_4051\_replaced([11168618](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ktxNt_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). [End CNI-81991]

The scheduling and the retransmission of this message follow 5G\_L1L2\_FLOW\_259\_replaced([11194519](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BfqWrfvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

[CNI-81991] ; For the PDSCH allocation, the 5G-L2-PS applies the specific Link Adaptation (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18220\_replaced([11153641](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-MfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). [End CNI-81991]

---

### 3.17.3.0-2 DL-DCCH: RRC reconfiguration or restablishment or reject or resume(with an explicit state of UE dedicated configuration) Reception of DL-DCCH data indication (SRB1) after the contention resolution with CRI MAC CE (ID: 11153613)

**3.17.3.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11153617`)

DL-DCCH: RRC reconfiguration or restablishment or reject or resume(with an explicit state of UE dedicated configuration)
If LoCtrl\_DlBufferStatusInd indicating data availability for SRB1 (logicalChannelIdentity set to 1; DL DCCH RRC message) is received for a UE, 5G-L2-PS shall initiate the scheduling of the UE by adding it to the pre-scheduler candidate set (5G\_UP\_ALG\_18928\_replaced([11174508](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kucjJ_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

[CNI-81991] ; To schedule the UE, the 5G-L2-PS selects the search space for C-RNTI (5G\_UP\_ALG\_4053\_replaced([11168627](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ktxNufvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). [End CNI-81991]

The scheduling and the retransmission of this message follow 5G\_L1L2\_FLOW\_259\_replaced([11194519](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_BfqWrfvREe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

[CNI-81991] ; For the PDSCH allocation without UE dedicated configuration activated, the 5G-L2-PS applies the specific Link Adaptation (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18220\_replaced([11153641](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-MfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). Otherwise, the regular link adaptation is used (5G\_UP\_ALG\_3001\_replaced([11125242](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kqtSpfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). [End CNI-81991]

---

### 3.17.3.0-3 DL-DCCH: RRC reconfiguration or restablishment or reject or resume(with an explicit state of UE dedicated configuration) Reception of DL-DCCH data indication (SRB1) with a UE dedicated configuration update indication (ID: 11153624)

**3.17.3.0-3.0-2**  (ID: `11153635`)

DL-DCCH: RRC reconfiguration or restablishment or reject or resume(with an explicit state of UE dedicated configuration)
When the following conditions are met, the U-Plane applies the procedure detailed hereafter:

 The U-Plane receives from the C-Plane an indication about the in progress modification of UE dedicated configuration which requires a special handling (see 5G\_CP\_OTH\_18190\_replaced([11600854](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Y3cBoPwOEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

 The NRCELL.actPRBBlanking is set to true [Before CB008954-J] and cell type is TDD.[End CB008954-J].

The gNB has to deliver the RRC message with the regular scheduling and link adaptation procedures, before the activation of the new settings (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26840\_replaced([11153334](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kslh-fvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) and waits for the RRC procedure completion (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26249\_replaced([11153730](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-PvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

---

### 3.17.3.1 PDSCH Link Adaptation for DL-DCCH transmission without UE dedicated configuration and for its activation

#### 3.17.3.1.0-1 PDSCH Link Adaptation for DL-DCCH transmission without UE dedicated configuration and for its activation Link Adaptation with DL-DCCH and CRI MAC CE (ID: 11153648)

**3.17.3.1.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11153653`)

PDSCH Link Adaptation for DL-DCCH transmission without UE dedicated configuration and for its activation
When the DL-DCCH and CRI are in the same MAC PDU, the 5G-L2-PS starts with the smallest MCS (MCS0) as the MAC-PDU will be small (17 bytes) and the MAC CE must be received to close the contention resolution.

The 5G-L2-PS computes the number of RB, not larger than the CORESET(0) size, to handle the expected TBS for each SLIV in the common TDRA list (5G\_UP\_ALG\_2391\_replaced([11115362](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpt0IPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))), with the MCS, assuming 2 additional DM-RS, 1 layer and no data in the CDM group.

If there is no combination of TDRA, MCS and RB with at least a start symbol equal to the DM-RS type A position, the 5G-L2-PS increase the MCS by one and restarts the computation of the combination (TDRA, MCS, RB) as long as the condition is not met (at least one combination with a start symbol equal to DM-RS type A position is valid leading to not get more RB than the CORESET(0) size).

When the valid combinations are computed, it may restrict the candidate slots for the transmisison. When the slot allows one of the valid combination(s) according to the PDSCH start symbol and length allowed, the 5G-L2-PS schedules the MAC-PDU and waits for the procedure completion (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17992\_replaced([11153671](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-NvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

---

#### 3.17.3.1.0-2 PDSCH Link Adaptation for DL-DCCH transmission without UE dedicated configuration and for its activation Link Adaptation with DL-DCCH alone and UE dedicated configuration deactivated or during its activation (ID: 11153658)

**3.17.3.1.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11153664`)

PDSCH Link Adaptation for DL-DCCH transmission without UE dedicated configuration and for its activation
When the UE dedicated configuration is disabled in the UE context, Any transmisison(s) of DL-DCCH could use the benefit of the RLC segmentation with the RLC-AM. Therefore, the initial MCS is used to transmit the DL-DCCH message(s) until the Link Adaptation is updating the proposed MCS.

The first DL-DCCH after sending a CRI MAC CE alone, is around 10 bytes (re-establishment) and only few RBs are needed with the initial downlink MCS according to the TDRA selected.

For other DL-DCCH message much larger, the 5G-L2-PS starts the transmission with the initial MCS and applies the regular Link Adaptation process.

---

### 3.17.3.2 DL-DCCH completion procedure detection

#### 3.17.3.2.0-1 DL-DCCH completion procedure detection DL-DCCH with or without CRI MAC CE and without UE dedicated configuration (ID: 11153675)

**3.17.3.2.0-1.0-2**  (ID: `11153691`)

DL-DCCH completion procedure detection
11153691:
DL-DCCH completion procedure detection
When the C-Plane creates the UE context, indicates that the UE does not have any dedicated configuration and the U-Plane received an UL-CCCH, it means the the C-Plane will send a DL-CCCH (5G\_UP\_ALG\_17951\_replaced([11153395](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJBfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) or a DL-DCCH (indication of data reception in DL SRB1 buffer). When only SRB1 buffer is signaled, the U-Plane applies the procedure hereafter.
 
Upon the initial transmission of the HARQ process handling the first DL-DCCH, the 5G-L2-PS triggers the following actions:
 Suspend any uplink transmissions which are not linked to the reception of a RA-Msg3 (initial or retransmission) for this UE (with no SR resource configured yet) or to the contention resolution when the UE reports a CRNTI MAC CE with the same RNTI, or  when the UE RRC processing delay is running.
 The 5G-L2-PS does not activate any dedicated configuration as only the SRB1 is activated in the BWP-0. The UE will have only the capability to trigger the RA procedure requesting uplink grants until the dedicated configuration is sent and acknowledged by the UE.
 Start the monitoring of the HARQ Process feedback and stores the k1 value used. When the HARQ process is acknowledged, or when the HARQ feedback corresponding to the last retransmission (rdMaxDlHarqMsg4) is known (Ack/Nack or Dtx), the 5G-L2-PS starts the timer rrcProcessingDelay before to allow DL or UL grants.
The timer is defined according to the k1 value used for the current HARQ, the size of the MAC-SDU handling the DL-CCCH, the potential BWP swicth requested by the C-Plane and an optional timer as follows:
 rrcProcessingDelay = ((rrcDlDcchMsgProcessingDelay +  addRrcProcessingDelay) x 2 ^ µ) - k1
with,
rrcDlDcchMsgProcessingDelay:
For the first DL-DCCH message, the value is set to 5 ms
addRrcProcessingDelay:
Number of additional subframes to extend the timer to delay the uplink grants during the RRC reconfiguration procedure without reception of a scheduling request (see 5G\_L2\_1437\_replaced([11182807](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_27ee2vvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))
 µ:
Numerology associated to the SCS configured in the PsCell\_CellGroupSetupReq (15kHz: 0, 30kHz: 1; 120kHz: 3)
[PR747791-24R1] ; If all HARQ processes used for CCCH completion are released and [End PR747791-24R1] at the first occurence between the detection of SR, if configured in the UE, or the detection of the new RA procedure with CRNTI MAC CE on the RNTI (RA-Msg3) or the end of the timer rrcProcessingDelay, the 5G-L2-PS considers that the RRC procedure is completed and allows the uplink and downlink grants according to the PDCCH configuration. As long as the UE dedicated configuration is disabled, the 5G-L2-PS sends only DCI Format x\_0 ; x = [0,1] on the Type1 search space.
[PR740925] ; After the completion of the procedure, the U-Plane adds in the UL buffer status of SRB1 few bytes corresponding the RRC reconf complete message size (8 bytes) and potentially 3 bytes for the RLC-Status(Ack) of the DL-DCCH (reestablishment) sent before (5G\_UP\_ALG\_26555\_replaced([11153913](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMXPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).
The overal sequence is summarized hearafter.
[image-0][image\_desc]The image is a diagram illustrating a sequence of events related to UE (User Equipment) dedicated configuration and RRC (Radio Resource Control) message processing in a telecommunications context. The diagram uses a horizontal timeline to represent the progression of time.
Here's a breakdown of the elements:
**Timeline and Key Events:**
\* **Optimal Sequence:** This is a horizontal line representing the ideal flow of operations.
\* **Time:** The horizontal axis is labeled "Time" and indicates the progression of events.
**Events and Descriptions:**
\* **ueDedicatedConfig: disabled:** This event occurs early in the sequence, indicating that dedicated configuration for the UE is initially disabled.
\* **PRC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI/LO):** This signifies the delivery of an RRC message within the U-Plane (User Plane) at Layer 2 (L2) or Layer 3 (L3) - High/Low.
\* **SPB1 bufferstatus change:** This indicates a change in the status of the SPB1 (Signaling Radio Bearer 1) buffer.
\* **UC on PUSCH avoidance:** This refers to the avoidance of Uplink Control (UC) on the Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH).
\* **CPUCCH: 1 bit Ack/Nack:** This denotes a 1-bit Acknowledgement (Ack) or Negative Acknowledgement (Nack) on the Channel Physical Control Channel (CPCCH).
\* **SPB1 buffer detection:** This event signifies the detection of data in the SPB1 buffer.
\* **UE RRC Msg delivery:** This indicates the delivery of a UE RRC message.
\* **rrcProcessingDelay:** This represents a delay in RRC message processing.
\* **Add few bytes in ueBuffer(SPB1):** This describes the addition of a small number of bytes to the SPB1 buffer.
\* **End of timer or successful completion:** This marks the end of a timer or the successful completion of an operation.
\* **UL grant (AUG):** This refers to an Uplink grant, possibly an Allocation Unit Grant (AUG).
\* **No dedicated configuration:** This state is reached later in the timeline, implying that dedicated configuration is not active.
**Phases/States:**
\* **UE dedicated configuration is not done yet. Only DCI Format 1\_0 or 0\_0 (Type 1) are allowed:** This bracketed section indicates a period where dedicated configuration is pending, and only specific DCI (Downlink Control Information) formats are permitted.
\* **RRC Msg Processing in the LE:** This bracketed section highlights the phase where RRC messages are being processed within the UE (likely "LE" refers to the UE's logic or entity).
\* **UE dedicated configuration not activated. DCI Format 1\_0 or 0\_0 are used:** This bracketed section indicates a state where dedicated configuration is not yet activated, and specific DCI formats are in use.
The diagram visually represents the temporal relationships between these events, showing how they unfold in a specific order during a communication process.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m22dng\_5G\_UP\_Algorithms\_file\_10097.001.png[/image\_path][/image-0]
File: DL-xCCH\_CompletionSequence.vsdx
Folder: 
[End PR740925]

---

#### 3.17.3.2.0-2 DL-DCCH completion procedure detection DL-DCCH activating the UE dedicated configuration (ID: 11153699)

**3.17.3.2.0-2.0-3**  (ID: `11153724`)

DL-DCCH completion procedure detection
11153724:
DL-DCCH completion procedure detection
Upon the reception of the UE context modification with the dedicated configuration in progress and leading to trigger DL-DCCH message to send, the 5G-L2-PS monitors the SRB1 buffers until the end of the transmision of the RRC message (SRB1). It is not expected to have any other traffic (UL/DL) which is not related to RRC message the gNB-DU has to deliver, because the DRB traffic (DL/UL) is not allowed or already suspended.
The 5G-L2-PS detects the presence of the RRC message in SRB1 buffer through the indication (LoCtrl\_DlBufferStatusInd(SRB1)) from the 5G-L2-LO about the SRB1 buffer modification. The 5G-L2-PS must check that it corresponds to the RRC message (size is above the size of a RLC status), in order to start the following procedure.
The Uplane starts an overall protection to not suspend the UL scheduler for a too long time. The timer in slots (harqRrcMsgTimeout) should be enough large to handle the whole HARQ processing to send the RRC reconfiguration with maxDlHarqTx. As this timer will be used at each time the gNB monitors the SRB1 buffer to detect the RRC message delivery towards the UE, when SR is configured in the UE, this timer should not be larger than the maximum number of SR period allowed.
[Before CNI-127390-D]
harqRrcMsgTimeout = min(10240,rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr x [srPreriodConfigured, rdDefaultPeriodNoSr])
[CNI-127390-D]
       if SR configured
             harqRrcMsgTimeout = rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr x min(40, srPeriodConfigured)
      if SR is not configured
             harqRrcMsgTimeout = rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr x defaultPeriodNoSr
      [End CNI-127390-D]
with,
rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_32109\_replaced([11153784](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksolRfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
Value in the range 0 to 64 and initialized to 42. the value set to 0 deactivates the overall protection.
srPreriodConfigured:
SR period which is active or which will be activated after the RRC Msg (if present). If the SR period is modified, then the smallest value is used.
rdDefaultPeriodNoSr: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_32111\_replaced([11153796](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksolR_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
Default period used when the UE has no SR configured. It should not be used if SR will be configured (see previous case). the default value in slot corresponds to 5ms and is expressed in slots accoridng to the numerology. the range is between 5 and 20 ms.
If the timer (harqRrcMsgTimeout) expires, the gNB flushes any pending DL and UL HARQ processes (RLC retransmissions will be triggered if needed), considers that the procedure is completed, activates the new configuration and removes all restrictions activated previously.
The C-RNTI is not a candidate of Scheduling Set 1 during a timer (rrcProcessingDelay) started after the reception of the HARQ feedback of the last DL transmission of the latest pending HARQ process leading to have an empty DL buffer for the SRB1. When the timer(rrcProcessingDelay) is started, the gNB-DU flushes any DL and UL pending HARQ processes. The HARQ feedback must be an acknowledgment or the last HARQ retransmission (rdMaxDlHarqMsg4 and Ack/Nack/Dtx).
If all HARQ processes used for DCCH completion are released and **[Before PR812678] the Scheduling Request (SR) or**[End PR812678] a RA-Msg3(C-RNTI MAC CE)  is received, before the end of the timer, the 5G-L2-PS stops it and allows the Uplink grants.***\*
At any time after the indication of the UE dedicated configuration is in progress, if the U-Plane receives from the C-Plane the RRC reconfiguration complete indication, it considers that the procedure is completed, the UE dedicated configuration is activated and all restrictions are removed (listed in the 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17986\_replaced([11153416](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJCPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). Then, the legacy UE management is applied and the 5G-L2-PS triggers, if needed, TCI update according to the requirment 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17996\_replaced([11153186](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksk64PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).
The timer is defined in order to let the UE manage the RRC reconfiguration procedure before to request a feedback if the UE did not request a scheduling. It value is defined in the 38.331 section 12. The value is computed as follow:
rrcProcessingDelay = ((10 + rrcBwpSwitchDelay +  addRrcProcessingDelay) x 2 ^ µ) - k1
with,
rrcBwpSwitchDelay:
If the C-Plane signals the first active BWP and is not the current UE active BWP [PR841342] or if there is any parameter change in the active BWP[End PR841342], the value is 6 ms; otherwise, the value is set to 0 ms.
addRrcProcessingDelay:
Number of additional subframes to extend the timer to delay the uplink grants during the RRC reconfiguration procedure without reception of a scheduling request (see 5G\_L2\_1437\_replaced([11182807](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_27ee2vvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).
µ:
Numerology associated to the SCS configured in the PsCell\_CellGroupSetupReq (15kHz: 0, 30kHz: 1; 120kHz: 3).
This timer is the minimum time to allow the UE to handle an Uplink grant after a RRC reconfiguration (38.331 section 12) which does not include scell addition/release or BWP switch. Any grants sent before will be not taken into account by the UE and will lead to a DTX in the uplink, if it is not explicitly requested by the UE (*\*[Before PR812678]reception of a SR or** [End PR812678] RA-Msg3(C-RNTI MAC CE) without SR configured).***\*
Before and until the first trigger signalling the end (completion) of the RRC procedure for the 5G-L2-PS (*\*[Before PR812678]SR or** [End PR812678] RA-Msg3 with CRNTI or timer expiration), only DCI Format 1\_0 and Format 0\_0 are allowed.***\*
After the completion of the procedure, the U-Plane sets the UE dedicated configuration activated, adds in the UL buffer of SRB1 (5G\_UP\_ALG\_26555\_replaced([11153913](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMXPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))), few bytes corresponding the UL-DCCH message size and RLC-Status of the DL-DCCH (8+3 bytes) in order to trigger an UL grant before the UE request (positive SR if there is no UL grant). Then all restrictions are removed (listed in the 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17986\_replaced([11153416](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJCPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). The legacy UE management is applied and the 5G-L2-PS triggers, if needed, TCI update according to the requirement 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17996\_replaced([11153186](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksk64PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).
The overall sequence is summarized hereafter.
[image-0][image\_desc]The image is a diagram illustrating two sequences of events related to UE (User Equipment) configuration and data transmission in a mobile network, likely 5G. The diagram uses a timeline format, with events occurring from left to right. There are two main horizontal timelines, labeled "Optimal Sequence" and "Sequence allowed due to design constraints".*\*Optimal Sequence Timeline:**
\* **Left side:**
\* "ueDedicatedConfig: disabled"
\* "ueDedicatedConfig: in Progress"
\* "harqRrcMsgTimer"
\* **Middle section:**
\* "PPC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI/LO)"
\* "UCI on PUSCH avoidance"
\* "PUCCH: 1 bit Ack/Nack"
\* "SRB1 buffer detection"
\* "UE RRC Msg delivery"
\* **Right side:**
\* "rrProcessing Delay"
\* "Flush UL HARQ Add few bytes in ueBuffer(SRB1)"
\* "End of timer or successful completion UL grant (AUG)"
\* "No restrictions"
\* **Below the timeline:**
\* A bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is not done yet. Only DC Format 1\_0 or 0\_0 (Type1) are allowed."
\* Another bracket indicates that "UL grant Blocked (except RA contention resolution) to let enough time for the RRC Msg Processing in the UE."
\* A final bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is activated. DC Format 1\_1 or 0\_1 are used."
**Sequence allowed due to design constraints Timeline:**
This timeline is visually similar to the "Optimal Sequence" but has some key differences in the events and their implications.
\* **Left side:**
\* "ueDedicatedConfig: disabled"
\* "ueDedicatedConfig: in Progress"
\* "harqRrcMsgTimer"
\* **Middle section:**
\* "PPC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI/LO)"
\* "UCI on PUSCH avoidance"
\* "PUCCH: 1 bit Ack/Nack"
\* "SRB1 buffer detection"
\* "UE RRC Msg delivery"
\* **Right side:**
\* "rrProcessing Delay"
\* "Flush UL HARQ Add few bytes in ueBuffer(SRB1)"
\* "End of timer or successful completion UL grant (AUG)"
\* "No restrictions"
\* **Below the timeline:**
\* A bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is not done yet. Only DC Format 1\_0 or 0\_0 (Type1) are allowed."
\* A more complex bracket indicates that "UL grant Blocked (except RA contention resolution). No UC on PUSCH occurs due to UL grant filtering (need to take care about the contention resolution by UL grant)."
\* A final bracket indicates that "UE dedicated configuration is activated. DC Format 1\_1 or 0\_1 are used."
The diagram highlights the timing and dependencies of various network procedures, particularly concerning UE configuration and the impact of UL grant filtering on PUSCH (Physical Uplink Shared Channel) transmissions. The "Optimal Sequence" appears to represent a more efficient or desired flow, while the "Sequence allowed due to design constraints" shows a scenario where certain limitations or filtering mechanisms might lead to different outcomes or delays.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m22dng\_5G\_UP\_Algorithms\_file\_10101.001.png[/image\_path][/image-0]
File: DL-xCCH\_CompletionSequence.vsdx
Folder:

---

#### 3.17.3.2.0-3 DL-DCCH completion procedure detection DL-DCCH modifying the UE dedicated configuration (ID: 11153730)

**3.17.3.2.0-3.0-3**  (ID: `11153761`)

DL-DCCH completion procedure detection
11153761:
DL-DCCH completion procedure detection
When the following conditions are met, the U-Plane applies the procedure detailed hereafter:
 The U-Plane receives from the C-Plane an indication about the in progress modification of UE dedicated configuration which requires a special hadling (see 5G\_CP\_OTH\_18190\_replaced([11600854](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Y3cBoPwOEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).
 The NRCELL.actPRBBlanking is set to true.
Upon the reception of the UE context modification with the dedicated configuration in progress whereas the UE dedicated configuration was activated previously and assuming without DRB configured yet, the U-Plane monitors and manages the SRB1 buffers until the end of the transmision of the RRC message (SRB1). It is not expected to have any other traffic (UL/DL) which is not related to RRC message that the gNB-DU has to deliver, because the DRB traffic (DL/UL) is not yet allowed.
The U-Plane detects the presence of the RRC message in SRB1 buffer through the indication (LoCtrl\_DlBufferStatusInd(SRB1)) from the 5G-L2-LO about the SRB1 buffer modification. The U-Plane must check that it correspond to the RRC message (size is above the size of a RLC status), in order to start the following procedure.
The U-Plane starts an overall protection to not suspend the UL scheduler for a too long time. The timer in slots (harqRrcMsgTimeout) should be enough large to handle the whole HARQ processing to send the RRC reconfiguration with maxDlHarqTx. As this timer will be used at each time the gNB monitors the SRB1 buffer to detect the RRC message delivery towards the UE, when SR is configured in the UE, this timer should not be larger than the maximum number of SR period allowed.
harqRrcMsgTimeout = min(10240,rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr x [srPreriodConfigured, rdDefaultPeriodNoSr])
with,
rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_32109\_replaced([11153784](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksolRfvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
Value in the range 0 to 64 and initialized to 42. the value set to 0 deactivates the overall protection.
srPreriodConfigured:
SR period which is active or which will be activated after the RRC Msg (if present). If the SR period is modified, then the smallest value is used.
rdDefaultPeriodNoSr: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_32111\_replaced([11153796](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksolR_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
Default period used when the UE has no SR configured. It should not be used if SR will be configured (see previous case). the default value in slot corresponds to 5ms and is expressed in slots accoridng to the numerology. the range is between 5 and 20 ms.
If the timer (harqRrcMsgTimeout) expires, the gNB flushes any pending DL and UL HARQ processes (RLC retransmissions will be triggered if needed), considers that the procedure is completed, activates the new configuration and removes all restrictions activated previously.
The C-RNTI is not a candidate of Scheduling Set 1 during a timer (rrcProcessingDelay) started after the reception of the HARQ feedback of the last DL transmission of the latest pending HARQ process leading to have an empty DL buffer for the SRB1. When the timer(rrcProcessingDelay) is started, the gNB-DU flushes any DL and UL pending HARQ processes. The HARQ feedback must be an acknowledgment or the last HARQ retransmission (rdMaxDlHarqMsg4 and Ack/Nack/Dtx).
If all HARQ processes used for DCCH completion are released and **[Before PR812678] the Scheduling Request (SR) or** [End PR812678] a RA-Msg3(C-RNTI MAC CE)  is received, before the end of the timer, the U-Plane stops it and allows the Uplink grants without any restriction.***\*
At any time after the indication of the UE dedicated configuration is in progress, if the U-Plane receives from the C-Plane the RRC reconfiguration complete indication, it considers that the procedure is completed, the UE dedicated configuration is activated and all restrictions are removed (listed in the 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17986\_replaced([11153416](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJCPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). Then, the legacy UE management is applied and the 5G-L2-PS triggers, if needed, TCI update accoding to the requirment 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17996\_replaced([11153186](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksk64PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).
The timer is defined in order to let the UE manage the RRC reconfiguration procedure before to request a feedback if the UE did not request a scheduling. It value is defined in the 38.331 section 12. the value is computed as follow:
rrcProcessingDelay = ((10 + rrcBwpSwitchDelay +  addRrcProcessingDelay) x 2 ^ µ) - k1
with,
rrcBwpSwitchDelay:
If the C-Plane signals the first active BWP and is not the current UE's active BWP [PR841342] or if there is any parameter change in the active BWP [End PR841342], the value is 6 ms; otherwise, the value is set to 0 ms.
addRrcProcessingDelay:
Number of additional subframes to extend the timer to delay the uplink grants during the RRC reconfiguration procedure without reception of a scheduling request (see 5G\_L2\_1437\_replaced([11182807](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_27ee2vvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).
µ:
Numerology associated to the SCS configured in the PsCell\_CellGroupSetupReq (15kHz: 0, 30kHz: 1; 120kHz: 3).
This timer is the minimum time to allow the UE to handle an Uplink grant after a RRC reconfiguration (38.331 section 12) which does not include scell addition/release or BWP switch. Any grants sent before will be not taken into account by the UE and will lead to a DTX in the uplink, if it is not explicitly requested by the UE (*\*[Before PR812678]reception of a SR or**[End PR812678] RA-Msg3(C-RNTI MAC CE) without SR configured).***\*
As the UE dedicated configuration was already activated previously, to send the DL-DCCH, the U-Plane uses the DCI Format 1\_1 if a UE-Specific search space is configured in the UE active BWP. Otherwise, there is no UE-Specific search space configured in the UE active BWP and the U-Plane uses a common search space Type3 PDCCH if configured or the Type1 PDCCH.
After the completion of the procedure, the U-Plane sets the UE dedicated configuration activated (modification is done) and adds in the UL buffer status of SRB1 few bytes corresponding the UL-DCCH message size (8 bytes) and potentially 3 bytes for the RLC-Status(Ack) of the DL-DCCH sent before (5G\_UP\_ALG\_26555\_replaced([11153913](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMXPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). The DRB traffic (DL and UL) is allowed if present and the UE-Specific search space configured should be used according to the UE active BWP configuration.
The overal sequence is summarized hearafter.
[image-0][image\_desc]The image is a diagram illustrating two sequences of events related to a User Equipment (UE) and its connection to a network, likely a cellular network. The diagram uses a timeline format, with events progressing from left to right. There are two main horizontal timelines, representing different scenarios or sequences.*\*Top Timeline: "Optimal Sequence"**
This timeline depicts a sequence of events labeled "Optimal Sequence".
\* **Left side:**
\* "ueDedicatedConfig: inProgress" and "harq Rrc MsgTimer" are shown as ongoing processes.
\* "ueDedicatedConfig activated" is a key event.
\* "RRC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI LO)" indicates the delivery of an RRC message.
\* "SRB1 buffer detection" signifies the detection of data in the SRB1 buffer.
\* **Middle:**
\* "RRC msg delivery to the UE" shows the message reaching the UE.
\* "rrc Processing Delay" represents a delay in processing the RRC message.
\* "RRC msg processing in the UE (no UL DL grant are expected)" indicates that the UE is processing the RRC message, and no uplink or downlink grants are anticipated at this stage.
\* "UE RRC Msg delivery" shows the delivery of the UE's RRC message.
\* **Right side:**
\* "Push UL HARQ Add few bytes in weBuffer (SRB1)" suggests an action related to HARQ and buffering.
\* "End of timer or successful completion UL grant (AIG)" marks the end of a timer or the successful completion of an uplink grant.
\* "No restrictions" indicates a state without limitations.
\* "Time" is the axis label.
\* **Below the timeline:**
\* "WEdedicated configuration is activated DCI Format 1\_1 or 0\_1 are used" describes the state of the UE's configuration.
\* "UL grant Blocked (except RAcontention resolution) toles enough time for the RRC Msg Processing in the UE" describes a condition where UL grants are blocked, allowing time for RRC message processing.
**Bottom Timeline: "Sequence allowed due to design constraints"**
This timeline depicts a sequence of events labeled "Sequence allowed due to design constraints". It shares many similarities with the top timeline but has some key differences, particularly in the timing and the description of UL grant behavior.
\* **Left side:**
\* Similar to the top timeline, "ueDedicatedConfig: inProgress" and "harq Rrc MsgTimer" are shown.
\* "ueDedicatedConfig activated" is also present.
\* "RRC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI LO)" and "SRB1 buffer detection" are similar.
\* **Middle:**
\* "RRC msg delivery to the UE" and "rrc Processing Delay" are present.
\* "RRC msg processing in the UE (no UL DL grant are expected)" is also shown.
\* "UE RRC Msg delivery" is depicted.
\* **Right side:**
\* "Push UL HARQ Add few bytes in weBuffer (SRB1)" is similar.
\* "End of timer or successful completion UL grant (AIG)" is shown.
\* "No restrictions" is indicated.
\* "Time" is the axis label.
\* **Below the timeline:**
\* "WEdedicated configuration is activated DCI Format 1\_1 or 0\_1 are used" is present.
\* "UL grant Blocked (except RAcontention resolution) No UC! on PUSCH occurs due to UL grant filtering (need to take care about the contention resolution by UL grant)" is a more detailed description of the UL grant behavior, highlighting that no uplink control (UC) on PUSCH occurs due to UL grant filtering and emphasizing the need to consider contention resolution by the UL grant.
In essence, the diagram contrasts an "optimal" sequence with a sequence that is "allowed due to design constraints," focusing on the timing of RRC message delivery, processing, and the behavior of uplink grants, particularly in the context of contention resolution.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/HTML\_m22dng\_5G\_UP\_Algorithms\_file\_10105.001.png[/image\_path][/image-0]
File: DL-xCCH\_CompletionSequence.vsdx
Folder:

---

#### 3.17.3.2.1 RRC message delivery overall protection R&amp;D parameters

##### 3.17.3.2.1.0-1 RRC message delivery overall protection R&amp;D parameters Principle (ID: 11153773)

**3.17.3.2.1.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11153779`)

RRC message delivery overall protection R&D parameters
As the uplink scheduling is suspended, during the RRC Msg delivery, it is mandatory to not let the UE to release the L1 resources (PUCCH/SR/SRS) due to the maximum number of SR transmission configured (sr-transMax).

When the SR period configured is small, then the time for the U-Plane to deliver the RRC message to the UE reduced and if the number of HARQ process transmisisons is large enough, it is mandatory to unblock the uplink grant esepcially if positive SR is received during the suspension of UL scheduling. When SR period is large, the procedure to deliver the RRC message can reach the maxDLHarqTx.

When SR is not yet configured in the UE, de default value is defiend in order to apply the same defence procedure.

---

##### 3.17.3.2.1.0-2 RRC message delivery overall protection R&amp;D parameters rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr (ID: 11153784)

**3.17.3.2.1.0-2.0-1**  (ID: `11153790`)

RRC message delivery overall protection R&D parameters
Short description:

Number of SR period to restrict the overall RRC procedure monitored by the MAC layer and especially to restrict the suspension of uplink scheduling.

Value range: 0...64

When the value is set to 0, the overall RRC Procedure protection is not activated.

Otherwise, it is a number of SR period

Default value: 42 (2/3 of sr-transMax)

Step size: 1

Unit: None

Online modifiable: Yes

Performance impact:

When the RRC procedure does not impact the DL DCI size or the PDSCH, then it is still possible to deliver the RRC Message (if not yet delivered) even if the uplink is not aligned with the current UE configuration. If the RRC Message is delivered, but it is not detected by the MAC layer monitoring, it will complete the RRC procedure in the U-Plane and will allow the UL scheduling with the new settings.

Used in: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18234\_replaced([11153699](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-OvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26249\_replaced([11153730](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-PvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

Owner: Th. Moindrot

---

##### 3.17.3.2.1.0-3 RRC message delivery overall protection R&amp;D parameters rdDefaultPeriodNoSr (ID: 11153796)

**3.17.3.2.1.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11153801`)

RRC message delivery overall protection R&D parameters
Short description:

Period to restrict the overall RRC procedure monitored by the MAC layer and especially to restrict the suspension of uplink scheduling.

Value range: 5...20

Default value: 5

Step size: 1

Unit: ms

Online modifiable: Yes

Performance impact:

When the RRC procedure does not impact the DL DCI size or the PDSCH, then it is still possible to deliver the RRC Message (if not yet delivered) even if the uplink is not aligned with the current UE configuration. If the RRC Message is delivered, but it is not detected by the MAC layer monitoring, it will complete the RRC procedure in the U-Plane and will allow the UL scheduling with the new settings.

Used in: 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18234\_replaced([11153699](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-OvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26249\_replaced([11153730](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-PvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))

Owner: Th. Moindrot

---

## 3.17.4 DL-DCCH without an explicit modification of UE dedicated configuration

### 3.17.4.0-1 DL-DCCH without an explicit modification of UE dedicated configuration Transient phase with DCI 1_0 in CSS upon RRC Reconfiguration (ID: 11153814)

**3.17.4.0-1.0-8**  (ID: `12647020`)

DL-DCCH without an explicit modification of UE dedicated configuration
Upon receiving the configurations from RRC Reconfiguration, 5G-L2-PS needs to compare the following configurations in RRC Reconfiguration with those that are stored,

* mcs-table ([11282471](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_TpfBz_vcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
* maxNumOfDlLayers ([11285001](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Tpu5aPvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
* dmrsAdditionalPosition ([11282395](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_TpfBwPvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))
* DL DMRS configuration type
* SSSG Switching configuration

if any of the above configurations are different and the C-Plane did not request to apply a specifc procedure (see ([11153597](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXKPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))),

{

If MRBTS/NRBTS/actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom is set to disabled,

5G-L2-PS shall conduct DL scheduling using only CSS (Type3-PDCCH) for the transient phase, which is corresponding to the period between receiving PsUser\_UserModifyReq and receiving PsUser\_UserReconfCompletedReq.

**rationale: in such cases, DCI 1\_1 size is expected to be different after UE applies RRC reconfiguration and alignment between gNB and UE would only be certain after RRC reconfiguration complete is received**

Else if MRBTS/NRBTS/actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom is set to enable, gNB-DU shall conduct DL scheduling using only CSS (Type3-PDCCH) for the period between receiving PsUser\_UserModifyReq and receiving PsUser\_RrcReconfCompletedReq (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_29060\_replaced([11153872](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMVPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))**.**

If DCI-based BWP switch procedure has been triggered for the UE (see ([11111082](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpKagvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))),

If the procedure is pending for the DL DCI 1\_1 to be sent, BWP switch shall be cancelled. Otherwise (ie DL DCI 1\_1 for DCI-based BWP switch has already been sent) transient phase shall start after the DCI-based BWP switch completion

}

Otherwise the DL DCI will be transmitted in the USS and if requested by the C-Plane the modified settings are delayed in order to have the capability to deliver the RRC message with the current active UE configuration which does not have the new parameters yet ([11153353](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kslh_PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).

5G-L2-PS shall flush the DL retransmission in buffer when the following scenarios are triggered:

* DCI1\_1 is used for initial transmission before transient phase, DCI 1\_0 is used for retransmission during transient phase
* DCI1\_0 is used for initial transmission during transient phase, DCI 1\_1 is used for retransmission after transient phase.

The transient phase can also be triggered by the following configuration in RRC Reconfiguration if the C-Plane did not request to apply a specific procedure (see ([11153597](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksnXKPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))):

* ueCapability/lteCrsRateMatchingUsable (Specified in ([11143994](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_233KLvvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))): until the lteCrsRateMatching in the UE, only DCI 1\_0 is available.
* User Reconfiguration Required (SRS port(s), Transform Precoding...) (~~([11168314](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ktvYg_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))~~). this procedure requires only to use DCI Format 0\_0 in Downlink the U-Plane uses DCI Format 1\_1.
* UE-specific Search Space not added ([11308949](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_TrFkVfvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) during UE setup until UE-specific Search Space has been configured only DCI Format 1\_0 and 0\_0 are used.
* remoteScellToAddList[numOfRemoteScellToAdd] (Specified in ([11120310](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kqPYnvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), apply to SCell addition [CB010741-C] / upgrade [End CB010741-C] (either step-wise requiring L1 reconfiguration in the PCell – see Note 3, or one-shot) for FDD or TDD PCell)
* remoteScellToReleaseList[numOfRemoteScellToRelease] (Specified in ([11120600](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kqSb6PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), apply to SCell release for FDD or TDD PCell results in no SCell left, note 2)

Note: When NIDD parameters NRCELL.actRat1Alloc = true and NRCELL.actDlDynSwitchAlloc = true) and when the PRBs blanking is configured (NRCELL.actPRBBlanking = true), the transition phase triggered by the RRC reconfiguration for the dynamicswitch allocation is not carried by DCI 1\_0 but by DCI 1\_1.

**Note 1: CSS is used in the transient phase to conduct DL scheduling which otherwise has to be transmitted in USS. For UE configured with FR1 CA, if the bit size of DCI1-1 will not change during the transient period, e.g., reconfiguration of SR resource of UE, DCI1-1 shall still be used to indicate DL scheduling during the transient period; and c-DAI/t-DAI setting in DCI1-1 shall still following the pre-assignment of DPA.**

**Note 2: For SCell release, transient phase starts after N DPA scheduling cycle after the reception of start notification of SCell release procedure from C-Plane, see ([11120617](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kqSb7vvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) for the reason.**

**Note 3: Not all L1 configuration changes in the PCell or retained SCell(s) accompanying the step-wise SCell Addition [CB010741-C] / Upgrade [End CB010741-C] require PCell’s gNB-DU to enter the transient state. For details refer to ([11120310](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kqPYnvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).**

If a prime-L2-PS receives for a designated UE with an existing ext-SCell(s) a user modify request (for the related user modify request procedure, please see ([11629242](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Y8hWBPwOEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))) with indication to release ext-SCell(s), the prime-L2-PS shall notify the ext-SCell(s) to stop data scheduling and DPA measurement for the relevant UE

**Note 4: PsUser\_UserModifyReq/Resp Specified in ([10975990](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2VEIdPu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)), also PsUser\_RrcReconfCompletedReq specified in ([10977732](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_2VOghfu6Ee-AqvopbP1qhQ)).**

---

## 3.17.5 MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages

### 3.17.5.0-1 MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages Deferring DL-DCCH RRC messages that requires RRC complete (ID: 12764030)

**3.17.5.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `12764031`)

MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages
When MRBTS/NRBTS.actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom is enabled, the higher-layer UE context modification request(s) received following the first bearer setup request for initial access and before completion of the ongoing SRB1 transmission shall be delayed until the ongoing SRB1 transmission is complete (all HarqProcess for SRB1 is released)

Rationale: Delay is introduced to avoid Harq buffer flushing due to forced DCI switch to 1\_0 (triggered by RRC Reconfiguration) during the parallel SRB1 procedure of SMC and RRC Reconfiguration.

---

### 3.17.5.0-2 MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages DL-DCCH RRC Complete Detection for RRC Messages Requiring RRC Completion (ID: 11153872)

**3.17.5.0-2.0-2**  (ID: `12881195`)

MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages
12881195:
MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages
**Purpose**
\* MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages upon the reception of the UE context modification with the dedicated configuration activated.
\* gNB-DU shall not allow any other traffic (UL/DL) which is not related to DL RRC message until harqAck/maxDlHarq transmission and post that no UL/DL traffic until the UL/DL grants allowed as part of the procedure.
\* To apply AUG priority boosting when MRBTS/NRBTS/NRCELL.actAugPriorityBoost is set to TRUE for RRC message upon the reception of the UE context modification with the dedicated configuration activate.
Note:RRC messages followed by PsUserSetupReq or PsUserModifyReq with UE's dedicated configuration as disabled or inProgress is handled by 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17985\_replaced([11153522](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmwHPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18233\_replaced([11153675](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-N_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_UP\_ALG\_18234\_replaced([11153699](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-OvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26249\_replaced([11153730](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-PvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) requirement.
 
**Inputs**
 
\* MRBTS/NRBTS.actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom
\* UE context modification with dedicated configuration activated
\* RRC Reconfiguration msg with rrcMsgProcessingDelay from higher layer [PR853181] with new/initial transmission indication. [End PR853181]
 
**Algorithm**
Step 1: Decide the timer in slots (harqRrcMsgTimeout) to handle the Harq processing to send the RRC message. During this timer execution, when MRBTS/NRBTS/actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom is set to enabled, gNB-DU shall suspend DRB traffic on DL direction and suspend both SRB and DRB traffic scheduled using dynamic grant on UL direction to UE. When SR is configured in the UE, this timer should not be larger than the maximum number of SR period (srPeriodicity \* sr-TransMax (n64)) allowed
       if SR configured
            harqRrcMsgTimeout = rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr x min(40, srPeriodConfigured)
       if SR is not configured 
            harqRrcMsgTimeout = rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr x defaultPeriodNoSr
with,
rdParamHarqRrcTimeoutSr: Value in the range 1 to 64 and initialized to 42
srPeriodConfigured: SR period which is active or which will be activated after the RRC Msg (if present). If the SR period is modified, then the smallest value is used.
defaultPeriodNoSr: Default period used when the UE has no SR configured. It should not be used if SR will be configured (see previous case). the default value in slot corresponds to 5ms and is expressed in slots according to the numerology. the range is between 5 and 20 ms.
 
Step 3:  When the HARQ process is acknowledged, or when the HARQ feedback corresponding to the last retransmission (maxHarqDlTx  or rdMaxDlHarqTxSrb1Ext **when non-zero value is set) is known (Ack/Nack or Dtx), gnB-DU shall flush HARQ buffer for the corresponding harq process. When all HARQ processes used for DL-xCCH completion are released for SRBs (no pending HARQ is expected), gNB-DU shall start the rrcProcessingDelay timer in order to let the UE process the RRC message (refer 38.331 section 12 for processing delay of RRC messages)**and when MRBTS/NRBTS/actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom is set to enabled, then***\*
        ;during this time DRB/SRB traffic scheduled through dynamic grant in UL/DL shall not be allowed. 
         ;gNB-DU shall apply the configuration parameter that impacts UL DCI size and/or PUCCH/PUSCH transmissions in the UL (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_26846\_replaced[11153382](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJA_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and additionally apply CG-deconfig configuration if present.
Timer rrcProcessingDelay value is computed as follows:
rrcProcessingDelay = ((rrcMsgProcessingDelay +* \*rrcBwpSwitchDelay + addRrcProcessingDelay) x 2 ^ µ) - k1**
with,
rrcBwpSwitchDelay:
If the first active BWP is signaled by the C-Plane and is not the current UE active BWP or parameter change of active BWP, the value is 6ms, otherwise the value is set to 0ms.
addRrcProcessingDelay:
Number of additional subframes to extend the timer to delay the uplink grants during the RRC reconfiguration procedure without reception of a scheduling request (see 5G\_L2\_1437\_replaced([11182807](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_27ee2vvTEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).
µ:
Numerology associated to the SCS configured in the PsCell\_CellGroupSetupReq (15kHz: 0, 30kHz: 1; 120kHz: 3).
This timer is the minimum time to allow the UE to handle an uplink/downlink grant after a RRC message processing (38.331 section 12).
    *Rationale:* Any grants sent before will be not taken into account by the UE and will lead to a DTX in the uplink, if it is not explicitly requested by the UE (RA-Msg3(C-RNTI MAC CE) without SR configured). *For reception of SR, UL grant shall not be sent for SR received till end of rrcProcessingDelay to avoid UL BLER when UE has not processed the RRC message which will cause configuration misalignment between gNB and UE. But this might also cause latency if UE has processed the RRC message earlier.***If MRBTS/NRBTS/actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom is set to FALSE and MRBTS/NRBTS/actRrcReconfProcessingDelay is set to TRUE
    Step 4: Upon the rrcProcessingDelay or harqRrcMsgTimeout timer expiry, gNB-DU shall stop the timer harqRrcMsgTimeout (if it is running) and send AUG (Anticipatory Uplink Grant) by adding few bytes in the UL buffer status for the corresponding RRC complete message (8 bytes) and potentially 3 bytes for the RLC-Status(Ack) of the DL-DCCH.
Else (MRBTS/NRBTS/actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom set to TRUE)
    Step 4: If before the rrcProcessingDelay timer expiry,
 ;a RA-Msg3(C-RNTI MAC CE)  is received, the U-Plane stops the timer (rrcProcessingDelay and harqRrcMsgTimeout) or upon rrcProcessingDelay or harqRrcMsgTimeout timer expiry or reception of RRC complete message indication from higher layer, gNB-DU shall
  1. stop harqRrcMsgTimeout or rrcProcessingDelay timer (if running) and flush any pending DL and UL HARQ processes (RLC retransmissions shall be triggered if needed) for SRBs.
  2. add few bytes in the UL buffer status for the corresponding RRC complete message size (8 bytes) and potentially 3 bytes for the RLC-Status(Ack) of the DL-DCCH sent before (5G\_UP\_ALG\_26555\_replaced([11153913](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMXPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).
  3. If UE's dedicated configuration is modified and MRBTS/NRBTS/actEnhRrcReconfUlPrbRandom is set to enable
 i) allow  uplink grants using UE-specific search space if it is configured for the UE's active BWP. Otherwise, gNB-DU shall use common search space Type3 PDCCH if configured or the Type1 PDCCH common search space. 
 ii) AUG is sent for the bytes added in point 2.
            iii) allow downlink grants using common search space Type3 PDCCH till gNB DU receives RRC complete message indication from the UE. Rationale: As some of the configuration is applied after the indication of RRC complete message from UE (due to L2PS design), it might cause DCI size mismatch in some cases for eg. SCell addition/release which will result in DTX thus causing BLER in DL. 
            iv)  apply the remaining configuration once gNB-DU receives RRC complete message indication from the UE.**Exception: At any time after the indication of the UE dedicated configuration is activated, if the U-Plane receives from the C-Plane the RRC reconfiguration complete indication, it considers that the procedure is completed, the UE dedicated configuration is activated and all restrictions are removed (listed in the 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17986\_replaced([11153416](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmJCPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))). Then, the legacy UE management is applied and the 5G-L2-PS triggers, if needed, TCI update accoding to the requirment 5G\_UP\_ALG\_17996\_replaced([11153186](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksk64PvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)). [PR853181] Mac layer monitoring shall not be triggered when re-transmission indication of RRC Reconfiguration with RRC Processing delay is received from the higher layer. [End PR853181]**The overall sequence is summarized below
 
[image-0][image\_desc]The image is a timeline diagram illustrating the process of UE (User Equipment) dedicated configuration and related events in a cellular network. The timeline progresses from left to right, marked by a horizontal line labeled "Time".
Key events and states are depicted as vertical arrows and horizontal brackets along the timeline.**Top Section (Events and Delays):**\*** UE dedicated configuration modified: **An event occurring early in the timeline.
\*** SRB1 buffer detection harqRrcMsgTimer: **Another event, likely related to buffer management and timers.
\*** RRC msg delivery in U-Plane (L2-HI/LO): **Indicates the delivery of RRC (Radio Resource Control) messages within the U-Plane.
\*** rrcProcessingDelay: **Represents a delay in RRC message processing.
\*** RRC msg delivery to the UE: **Shows the delivery of RRC messages to the UE.
\*** RRC msg processing in the UE (no UL/DL grant are axpected): **Denotes the processing of RRC messages by the UE, where no UL/DL grants are anticipated.
\*** Flush UL HARQ Add few bytes in ueBuffer(SRB1): **Actions related to flushing HARQ (Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request) and adding data to a buffer.
\*** End of timer or successful completion: **Marks the end of a timer or a successful operation.
\*** UL grant (AUG): **Indicates the allocation of an uplink grant.**Middle Section (UE States and Actions):**\*** UE has dedicated configuration: **A state where the UE has received dedicated configuration.
\*** MAC Layer monitoring: **The MAC (Medium Access Control) layer is actively monitoring.
\*** UE RRC Msg delivery: **Delivery of UE RRC messages.
\*** No restrictions: **A period where there are no specific restrictions.**Bottom Section (DCI Formats and Conditions):**\*** UE dedicated configuration is activated DCI Format 1\_x(1) or 0\_1 are used: **This state signifies that the UE's dedicated configuration is active, and specific DCI (Downlink Control Information) formats are in use.
\*** Only DCI Format 1\_x(1) is used: **A period where only a particular DCI format is utilized.
\*** UL grant Blocked (except RA contention resolution) No UCI on PUSCH occurs due to UL grant filtering (need to take care about the contention resolution by UL grant): **This describes a scenario where uplink grants are blocked, with exceptions for Random Access (RA) contention resolution. It also mentions that no Uplink Control Information (UCI) is sent on PUSCH (Physical Uplink Shared Channel) due to UL grant filtering, and the need to manage contention resolution.
\*** UE dedicated configuration is activated DCI Format 1\_1 or 0\_1 are used: **Similar to the earlier state, indicating the activation of dedicated configuration and the use of specific DCI formats.**Footnote (1):**The footnote provides crucial information about the dependency of DCI Format:
\*** DL Transient phase (DCI size, PDSCH modification) in DL is triggered: DCI Format 1\_0 (Type3)**\*** No DL transient phase in DL is not triggered: DCI Format 1\_1 (UE-Specific Search Space)\*\*
This footnote clarifies which DCI format is used based on whether a DL transient phase is triggered and involves PDSCH modifications.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/img-04091739.png[/image\_path][/image-0]
File: DL-xCCH\_CompletionSequence.vsd
Folder:

---

### 3.17.5.0-3 MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages DL DCCH RRC complete procedure detection for RRC Message not requiring RRC completion (ID: 11153894)

**3.17.5.0-3.0-4**  (ID: `12885793`)

MAC layer monitoring for RRC messages
**Purpose**

To indicate the higher layer, confirmation of RRC message delivery to UE based on MAC layer monitoring and confirmation.

**Inputs**

An Indication from a higher layer that requires this procedure

* RRC Release (5G\_CP\_ARC\_ALG\_16140\_replaced([11252310](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_Tngr4PvcEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))
* RRC Reconfiguration for Handover

**Algorithm**

Step 1: Upon reception of the indication from the higher layer, gNB-DU shall

a) Block UL SRB/DRB; except when RACH is attempted, then UL SRB shall be allowed to complete the contention resolution as per [11152927](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksjFs_vSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)

b) Block DL DRB traffic.

c) Increase the max DL Harq Tx for all SRB HarqProcess, including ongoing and new SRB transmission to rdMaxDlHarqTxRrcMsgWithoutRlcAck.

Step 2: If the DCI-based BWP switch procedure has been triggered for the UE (see 5G\_UP\_ALG\_1857\_replaced([11111082](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kpKagvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))), and the procedure is pending for the DL DCI 1\_1 to be sent for BWP switch, then BWP switch shall be cancelled. Otherwise (ie DL DCI 1\_1 for DCI-based BWP switch has already been sent) RRC message corresponding to the higher layer indication shall start after the DCI-based BWP switch completion.

Step 3: gnb-DU shall

* increase the aggregation level to AL4 if the existing aggregation level is less than AL4
* and reduce the corresponding MCS used for PDSCH transmission to max (MCS0, MCSx -rdMcsReductionRrcWoRlcAck) [CNI-125276-A-UPD001] only for non-handover indication, to ensure PDCCH/PDSCH transmission reliability of the RRC message. [End CNI-125276-A-UPD001]
* [Before CNI-125276-A-UPD001][CNI-125276-A]; when the indication from the higher layer is for handover, then ensure that MCS reduction shall not result in additional fragments. Hence, MCS to be chosen in such a way it should be between MCSx and max(MCS0, MCSx-rdMcsReductionRrcWoRlcAck), which shall not introduce additional fragments [End CNI-125276-A], to ensure PDCCH/PDSCH transmission reliability of the RRC message. [End CNI-125276-A-UPD001]

[CNI-125276-A-UPD001] Note: MCS adaptation follows the NRCELL.actDlRankAdpAndSRB1McsLimDurHO flag; this flag is mandated to be true for handover indication [End CNI-125276-A-UPD001]

Where MCSx is the MCS chosen based on LA (rrmDlProposedMcs 5G\_UP\_ALG\_3045\_replaced([11125301](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kqt5svvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ))).

Step 4:  When the HARQ process is acknowledged, or when the HARQ feedback corresponding to the last retransmission (rdMaxDlHarqTxRrcMsgWithoutRlcAck) is known (Ack/Nack or DTX), gnB-DU shall flush HARQ buffer for the corresponding HARQ process and send the indication to the higher layer on RRC message delivery to UE [PR840987] only for handover indication. [End PR840987]

[PR840987] For non handover indication, gNB-DU shall send an anticipated uplink grant, following either a HARQ Acknowledge (ACK) or a final HARQ Negative Acknowledge (NACK). If a DTX is detected after sending the anticipated uplink grant, the gNB-DU shall attempt to retransmit the anticipated uplink grant exactly once. After that indication shall be sent to the higher layer on RRC message delivery to UE [End PR840987]

*Rationale:* Reception of RLC-Ack is overhead, especially when the HARQ feedback handling the RRC message is already acknowledged concerning the scheduler resource. For the RRC release, there is no guarantee that the UE sends RLC-Ack as it also depends on the gNB to schedule it in time (Refer 3GPP spec 38331 chapter 5.3.8.3).\*\*

---

## 3.17.6 Anticipated Uplink Grant for SRB

### 3.17.6.0-1 Anticipated Uplink Grant for SRB (ID: 11153913)

**3.17.6.0-1.0-4**  (ID: `11153929`)

Anticipated Uplink Grant for SRB
When the DL scheduler receives an [Before CNI-127390-D]ACK [CNI-127390-D] Harq Ack [End CNI-127390-D]for SRB [CNI-127390-D] data PDU[End CNI-127390-D], this means that the UE should have a response, and the DL scheduler needs to tell the UL scheduler to grant a grant to the UE to reduce the round-trip delay of the SRB message.

The UL RRC message (including headers) size is mainly 10 bytes or few hundred and on top the UE may have to add the RLC Status Ack (3 bytes) of the previous DL-DCCH. Therefore, as the gNB does not know the amount of data the UE has to send before to receive the BSR, it must be assumed that it is simply the answer without additional NAS information (8 bytes) with the RLC status Ack (3 bytes) of the previous DL-DCCH transmission (even if in case of RRC setup complete, there is no RLC Status as the RRC Setup message is transmitted on DL-CCCH and is using the RLC transparent mode).

The reduction of the data added in the buffer avoids to waste the PUSCH resources for nothing and will improve the performances of the UE which are power limited. The U-Plane will add only 11 bytes of data in the uplink Logical Channel Group associated to the SRB1.

When the DL-xCCH procedure is completed [Before PR837688] [Before CNI-127390-B] [End PR837688](5G_UP_ALG_17985_replaced([11153522](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmwHPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), 5G_UP_ALG_17992_replaced([11153671](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-NvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))[CNI-127390-B] (5G\_UP\_ALG\_29060\_replaced([11153872](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMVPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)))[End CNI-127390-B], the U-Planes adds few bytes in the Uplink SRB1 buffer of the RNTI, to trigger an UL grant earlier than the potential reception of a positive SR. The minimum size expected (11 bytes) corresponds to the reception of the RRC complete message (Setup or Reconfiguration) and an RLC-Status corresponding to the DL-xCCH transmission if it was not received earlier. For all other cases, the default value is applied.

[PR837688] Positive SR received during DL-xCCH procedure shall not be considered as a condition to stop the anticipated uplink grant, as positive SR received during DL-xCCH procedure is not considered and UL grant is not sent for the same by gNB-DU. [End PR837688]

[CNI-127390-D] [PR839391] After the DL-xCCH procedure is completed (see [11153522](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksmwHPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ), [11153671](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_ksn-NvvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ), [11153872](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_kspMVPvSEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) [End PR839391] anticipated uplink grant shall be stopped when data PDU is received  [Before PR830327-25R3] with BSR=0 [**PR829206-25R3] or no BSR****[****End PR829206-25R3**]**[End PR830327-25R3] for SRB LCG [PR833408-25R3] or when data PDU is received with a logical channel identity higher than SRB1 [End PR833408-25R3] or when positive SR is received. [End CNI-127390-D]**\*\*\*\*

---

## 3.17.7 R&amp;D parameters

### 3.17.7.0-1 R&amp;D parameters rdMaxDlHarqTxSrb1Ext (ID: 11153943)

**3.17.7.0-1.0-1**  (ID: `11153946`)

R&D parameters
Short description: This parameter defines maxHarqDlTx value extension for SRB1. From NIDD, max value that can be supported for maxHarqDlTx is 8. As part of this R&D parameter this can be extended further till 64.

Value range: 9...64

Default value: 0 (no extension possible)

Step size: 1

Unit: N.A

Online modifiable: no

Performance impact: This parameter re-defines the max DL Harq transmission for SRB1 and this will have impact on dlTPollRetr value. When this value is set to other than 0, then higher value for dlTPollRetr shall be chosen and also less value for dlMaxRetxThreshold.

Used in:

Trigger for deletion: When the R&D parameter has been replaced by a NIDD parameter.

Owner: Radha J

---

### 3.17.7.0-2 R&amp;D parameters rdMaxDlHarqTxRrcMsgWithoutRlcAck (ID: 11153954)

**3.17.7.0-2.0-2**  (ID: `13241929`)

R&D parameters
Short description: This parameter defines maximum DL Harq transmission value for RRC messages for which MAC layer confirmation is sufficient and not required to wait for RLC-Ack from UE

Value range: 1...64

Default value: [Before PR856222] 10 [PR856222] 24 [End PR856222]

Step size: 1

Unit: N.A

Online modifiable: no

Performance impact: This parameter defines the max DL Harq transmission for RRC messages which MAC layer confirmation is sufficient enough and does not mandatorily require confirmation from UE at higher layer.

Used in:

Owner: Radha J

---

### 3.17.7.0-3 R&amp;D parameters rdMcsReductionRrcWoRlcAck (ID: 11153966)

**3.17.7.0-3.0-1**  (ID: `11153971`)

R&D parameters
Short description: This parameter defines the MCS reduction factor for RRC messages for which MAC layer confirmation is sufficient and not required to wait for RLC-Ack from UE.

Value range: 3...6

Default value: 3

Step size: 1

Unit: N.A

Online modifiable: no

Performance impact: This parameter defines the MCS reduction factor for the RRC message for which Mac layer confirmation is sufficient to indicate higher layer for further action.

Used in:

Owner: Radha J

---
