# 5.1 General

## 5.1.0-1 General Document Owner Yin Yenan (ID: 11516569)

## 5.1.1 Backward compatibility handling

### 5.1.1.1 Interface between L1-BB and L1-RU

**5.1.1.1.0-1**  (ID: `11516575`)

Interface between L1-BB and L1-RU
Interface between L1-BB and L1-RU shall support backward compatibility.

L1-BB and L1-RU shall support scenarios in which the remote entity is aligned to a different interface version.

To achieve this, versioned structure framework is used for all eCPRI 7-2e FH C-plane messages and nested dynamic structures.

Versioned structure framework is not used for DL and UL U-plane messages.

---

### 5.1.1.2 Versioned structure concepts

**5.1.1.2.0-1**  (ID: `11516579`)

Versioned structure concepts
Following terms are used for determining the version of a message or a structure.

**Selected denotes the version of the message or structure generated by the sending entity.**

**Latest denotes the latest version of a message or a structure supported by a given entity. This is the version of the message or structure enbedded in the interface with which the code is generated.**

---

### 5.1.1.3 Versioned structure header

**5.1.1.3.0-1**  (ID: `11516583`)

Versioned structure header
When using versioned structure framework, a header, automatically generated by MulTI, is added to the main structure of the message and to all the versioned structures it contains.

|  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Parameter** | **Range** | **Description** | **First feature** |
| offset | u32 | Offset (in bytes) to the union of structure versions (not directly used by application SW) | CB011026-F |
| selected | u32 | Version indicator of the structure | CB011026-F |

---

### 5.1.1.4 Fixed-version versioned structure array (FVVSA)

**5.1.1.4.0-1**  (ID: `11516586`)

Fixed-version versioned structure array (FVVSA)
The concept of fixed-version versioned structure array (FVVSA) denotes a dynamic array of versioned structures which have all the same version.

In this case, MulTI does not generate the version header for each individual structure but a unique version information is automatically added to the array header.

The header of a FVVSA has the following generic format:

|  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Parameter** | **Range** | **Description** | **First feature** |
| version\_indicator | u32 | Common version indicator of the structure of all array elements | CB011026-F |
| offset | u32 | Offset in bytes to the first element of the array | CB011026-F |
| length | u32 | Number of elements of the array | CB011026-F |
| element\_size | u32 | Common size in bytes of each element | CB011026-F |

In L1-BB/L1-RU FH interface, all sub-structures of messages are organised in fixed-version versioned structure arrays.

Note: In following requirements, term **selected is used for denoting the "selected" field of a single versioned structure or the "version\_indicator" field of a FVVSA.**

---

### 5.1.1.5 Sender Procedure

#### 5.1.1.5.0-1 Sender Procedure When building a message to be sent, L1-BB or L1-RU shall use the latest version of the message and all nested dynamic structures or versioned structure arrays. (ID: 11516590)

### 5.1.1.6 Simplified receiver procedure for 1st interface version

**5.1.1.6.0-1**  (ID: `11516595`)

Simplified receiver procedure for 1st interface version
[Before CB014655-SR-A]

If the receiving entity only supports version 0 of a message or of a nested structure or FVVSA, the **selected version does not need to be checked.**

The receiving entity shall read the message, structure or FVVSA assuming it is version 0, whatever the actual version used by the sending entity.

If the sending entity is aligned to higher version, the information which is not supported by version 0 will be ignored.

[CB014655-SR-A]

This procedure is no longer valid.

[End CB014655-SR-A]

Note: Only the simplified receiver procedure is supported eCPRI-7-2e L3-call feature CB011026.

---

### 5.1.1.7 Full receiver procedure

**5.1.1.7.0-1**  (ID: `11516599`)

Full receiver procedure
[Before CB014655-SR-A]

As receiving entity, L1-BB and L1-RU shall support all versions of messages, structures and versioned structure arrays from version 0 to the **latest.**

L1-BB and L1-RU shall check the **selected version of the received message and each nested structure or FVVSA. The following procedure shall be performed for each of these elements:**

if **selected >=** latest\*\*\*\*

Read the message/structure/FVVSA using **latest version**

If **selected>**latest, IEs which are not supported by the **latest version will be ignored**\*\*\*\*

else

switch (**selected)**

case 0:

Read the message/structure/FVVSA using version 0 format

break

case 1:

Read the message/structure/FVVSA using version 1 format

break

...

end switch

For transmission to upper layers (L2 in case L1-BB is the receiving entity), all IEs introduced between versions **selected+1 and** latest shall be set to default or invalid values.\*\*\*\*

end if

It may be assumed that the version of a message, a structure or a FVVSA does not change while a cell is active.

To simplify the receiving procedure, L1-BB or L1-RU shall check the **selected version only once after cell set-up for each message type and each nested structure type. The method for reading the message/structure shall be memorized up to the next cell set-up.**

Note: L1-BB or L1-RU shall support this procedure as soon as it shall support a non-zero version of a message/structure/FVVSA.

[CB014655-SR-A]

This procedure is no longer valid.

[End CB014655-SR-A]

---

### 5.1.1.8 Message version

**5.1.1.8.0-1**  (ID: `11516604`)

Message version
Versioned structure framework assumes independant versioning of the main structure of messages and of the nested structures or FVVSA. In most cases, the version of a nested structure can have its version incremented without changing the version of the main message structure.

To ease the identification of a , a unique version identifier **messageVersion is added to the message payload. It is not automatically inserted by MulTI and does not replace MulTI-generated versioned structure and FVVSA headers described in 5G\_L1\_IF\_15148\_replaced([11516583](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSFR0PvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) and 5G\_L1\_IF\_15232\_replaced([11516586](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSFR0fvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)).**

The message version shall be incremented [Before CB014655-SR-A] whenever the main structure changes or whenever one of its nested structure changes [CB014655-SR-A] once per system release, starting from 26R2, where messageVersion is set to 1 [End CB014655-SR-A].

The message version points to a single version of the main structure and of all nested structures/FVVSA of the message.

The sending entity shall set the messages to the **latest version.**

A table associating the versions of structures/FVVSA to each message version is added to the description of each message.

[CB014655-SR-A]

As messageVersion is always increased once per system release, a message for a system release 'N' contains all changes made to the versioned structures([11516583](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSFR0PvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ?oslc_config.context=https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/gc/configuration/9))/FVVSA([11516586](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSFR0fvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)) in the system release 'N' (and in previous releases).  
When there is a change in the versioned structure/FVVSA, its version is increased by one. For example:

|  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| messageVersion | message main structure version | embedded structure/FVVSA version | Feature |
| 0 | 0 | 0 |  |
| 1 | 1 | 0 | A - changes in the main structure in release 'N' |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | B - changes in the FVVSA in release 'N' |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | C - changes in the main structure in release 'N' |
| 2 | 2 | 1 | D - changes in the main structure in release 'N+1' |

* message with messageVersion = 1 (for system release 'N') contains: main structure with version 1, FVVSA with version 1;
* message with messageVersion = 2 (for system release 'N+1') contains: main structure with version 2, FVVSA with version 1;

Note: if there is more than one change in any versioned structure/FVVSA within the same system release, its version is increased only once (by one).

[End CB014655-SR-A]

---

### 5.1.1.9 Receiver procedure using message version

**5.1.1.9.0-1**  (ID: `11516608`)

Receiver procedure using message version
[Before CB014655-SR-A]

As an alternative to the algorithm described in 5G\_L1\_IF\_15151\_replaced([11516599](https://dn-prod.ext.net.nokia.com/rm/resources/BI_FSFR1PvxEe-AqvopbP1qhQ)), the receiving entity can use a receiving procedure based on message version. The choice of the algorithm is left to implementation.

If this procedure is chosen, L1-BB or L1-RU shall support it as soon as it shall support a non-zero version of a message.

[CB014655-SR-A]

The receiving entity shall use a receiving procedure based on messageVersion.

[End CB014655-SR-A]

**Static configuration**

The message version identifies the version of the main structure and versions of all nested structures/FVVSA.

L1-BB and L1-RU shall store the version of the main structure and all nested structures/FVVSA associated to each version of the message.

**Dynamic part**

On reception of the message, the receiving entity shall only check **messageVersion IE**

[Before CB014655-SR-A]

if **messageVersion >=** latest\*\*\*\*

Read the message and all structures/FVVSA according **latest versions**

If **messageVersion>**latest, IEs which are not supported by the **latest version will be ignored**\*\*\*\*

else

switch (**messageVersion)**

case 0:

Read the message and structures according to version 0 format

break

case 1:

Read the message and structure according to formats pointed by version 1 of the message

break

...

end switch

For transmission to upper layers (L2 in case L1-BB is the receiving entity), all IEs introduced between versions **messageVersion+1 and** latest shall be set to default or invalid values.\*\*\*\*

end if

[CB014655-SR-A]

For reception of the message on L1-DU side:

if messageVersion >= (latest + 4): //DU is too old

// BB should never receive a response message from RU with a messageVersion >= (latest + 4), because that would mean the release of DU is too old for release of RU and  
    // consequently RU should have dropped the request message from DU without sending the response.  
    // However, if a response message is received from RU, it shall be dropped.

else if (latest + 3) >= messageVersion > latest: //DU is older than RU but not too old

// as received message version is newer than the one supported by DU, some extra parameters, unknown to DU may be present. In that case they are ignored on DU side.

else if messageVersion == latest: //DU and RU are aligned

// Read the message and all structures/FVVSA according to the **latest versions - all parameters are known.**

else if messageVersion < latest: //DU newer than RU

// BB should never receive a response message from RU with a messageVersion < latest, because that would mean the release of DU is newer than release of RU and  
    // consequently RU should have dropped the request message from DU without sending the response.  
    // However, if a response message is received from RU, it shall be dropped.

end if

For reception of the message on L1-RU side:

if messageVersion > latest: //DU newer than RU

// case not supported, as DU cannot support newer system release than RU - received request message is dropped and no response message shall be sent to DU.

else if messageVersion == latest: //DU and RU are aligned

// Read the message and all structures/FVVSA according to the **latest versions - all parameters are known.**

else if (latest - 3) <= messageVersion < latest: //DU is older than RU but not too old

// as received message version is older than the one supported by RU, some of the parameters may not be present. In that case they are filled with default value on RU side.

else if messageVersion <= (latest - 4): //DU is too old

// if messageVersion of the received message is older by 4 or more releases than latest, received message is dropped (too old message) and no response shall be sent to DU.

end if

[End CB014655-SR-A]

[CB014655-SR-B]

Whenever any C-Plane 7-2e FR1 TDD message is dropped due to messageVersion incompatibility, L1 shall log an ERROR in the L1 journal log.

[End CB014655-SR-B]

---

### 5.1.1.10 Backward compatibility between DU and RU

**5.1.1.10.0-1**  (ID: `12695570`)

Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
12695570:
Backward compatibility between DU and RU
L1 shall maintain a backward compatibility of different versions of C-Plane 7-2e FR1 TDD messages between DU and RU.  
Assuming that messageVersion on RU side is 'N', backward compatibility with DU messageVersion down to 'N-3' shall be maintained.

Compatibility rules for L1 DU and RU SW:

* DU release 'N' shall be compatible with RU SW release 'N', 'N+1', 'N+2' and 'N+3' - when DU receives a message with newer messageVersion from RU (N+1, N+2 or N+3), new (unknown) parameters shall be ignored on DU side.
* RU release 'N' shall be compatible with DU SW release 'N', 'N-1', 'N-2' and 'N-3' - when RU receives a message with older messageVersion from DU, missing parameters shall be filled in with default values on RU side.
* DU supporting newer release than RU causes incompatibility - received message is dropped.
* DU supporting release older than 'N-3' than RU causes incompatibility - received message is dropped.

messageVersion of every C-Plane 7-2e FR1 TDD message  is increased by '1' every system release, starting from 26R2 (where its value is set from '0' to '1'). E.g.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| system release | messageVersion on RU side | compatible messageVersion on DU side |
| 26R1 | 0 | 0 |
| 26R2 | 1 | 0, 1 |
| 26R3 | 2 | 0, 1, 2 |
| 27R1 | 3 | 0, 1, 2, 3 |
| 27R2 | 4 | 1, 2, 3, 4 |
| ... | ... | ... |

Below diagram describes the actions on each side (DU and RU) when message with given messageVersion is received. It is assumed that receiver side uses messageVersion equal to 'N'.

[image-0][image\_desc]The image displays two diagrams side-by-side, illustrating communication principles between "DU" (likely Data Unit) and "RU" (likely Receiver Unit) or "DU Receiver". Both diagrams use versioning indicated by "(N)" for message versions.
The left diagram, titled "Receiver in RU : Principle", shows a "DU" sending "Req" (Request) to an "RU". The "RU Receiver (N)" is depicted. Various request versions are sent from DU to RU:
- Req sent with (N-4): Dropped by RU receiver as DU is too old (labeled D).
- Req sent with (N-3): New parameters (*) filled with "Default value" by RU receiver (labeled C).
- Req sent with (N-2): ok, All parameters used by RU (labeled B).
- Req sent with (N-1): ok, All parameters used by RU (labeled B).
- Req sent with (N): ok, All parameters used by RU (labeled B).
- Req sent with (N+1): Dropped by RU receiver as DU is newer than RU (labeled A).
A legend at the bottom explains the labels:
- A: DU is newer than RU (not allowed)
- B: DU and RU aligned on same release
- C: DU is up to 3 releases older than RU but not too old
- D: DU too old (not allowed)
There's also a note: "(*) parameters introduced between release N and N-3, N-2 and N-1".
The right diagram, titled "Receiver in DU : Principle", shows a "RU" sending "Resp" (Response) to a "DU". The "DU Receiver (N)" is depicted. Various response versions are sent from RU to DU:
- Resp sent with (N-1): Should never happen as Req (N+1) are dropped by RU receiver (labeled A).
- Resp sent with (N): ok, All parameters forwarded to L2 (labeled B).
- Resp sent with (N+1): ok, New parameters are ignored (labeled C).
- Resp sent with (N+2): ok, New parameters are ignored (labeled C).
- Resp sent with (N+3): ok, New parameters are ignored (labeled C).
- Resp sent with (N+4): Should never happen as Req (N-4) are dropped by RU receiver (labeled D).
The legend at the bottom for this diagram is identical to the one on the left.[/image\_desc][image\_path]https://storage.googleapis.com/dng\_files/images/img-07211339.png[/image\_path][/image-0]  
Note: messageVersion cannot have negative value. Therefore, e.g. messageVersion = 1 (on RU side) is compatible only with messageVersion = {0, 1} (on DU side).

---
